The Project Gutenberg eBook of Report on the Migration of Birds in the
Spring and Autumn of 1887, by J. A. Harvie-Brown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Report on the Migration of Birds in the Spring and Autumn of 1887
       Ninth Report, 1887

Author: J. A. Harvie-Brown
        J. Cordeaux
        R. M. Barrington
        A. G. More
        W. Eagle Clarke

Release Date: August 27, 2021 [eBook #66152]

Language: English


Produced by: Tom Cosmas from files made available at The Internet Archive
             and placed in the Public Domain.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS
IN THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1887 ***









                                REPORT

                                ON THE

                          MIGRATION OF BIRDS

                                IN THE

                      SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1887.


                                  BY

                Mr J. A. HARVIE-BROWN, Mr J. CORDEAUX,

                  Mr R. M. BARRINGTON, Mr A. G. MORE,

                                  AND

                          Mr W. EAGLE CLARKE.



                             NINTH REPORT.

                          (Vol. II., No. 4.)



                              EDINBURGH:

                    PRINTED BY M'FARLANE & ERSKINE,

                      14 and 19 ST JAMES SQUARE.

                                 1889.




PREFACE.


This Report contains a summary of the investigations of a Committee
reappointed by the British Association for the Advancement of
Science, at Manchester, in 1887, to consist of Professor Newton, Mr
J. A. Harvie-Brown, Mr John Cordeaux, Mr W. Eagle Clarke, Mr R. M.
Barrington, and Mr A. G. More, for the purpose of obtaining (with
the consent of the Master and Elder Brethren of the Trinity House,
the Commissioners of Northern Lights, and the Commissioners of Irish
Lights) observations on the Migration of Birds at Lighthouses and
Light-ships, and of reporting on the same at Bath in 1888. Mr Cordeaux
to be the Secretary.

The returns relating to Scotland have been arranged by Mr J. A.
Harvie-Brown; for the East Coast of England, by Mr Cordeaux; for the
West Coast of England, by Mr W. Eagle Clarke; and those for the Coasts
of Ireland, by Mr R. M. Barrington and Mr A. G. More.

This is the ninth, and final, report issued, and the Committee have
much pleasure in stating that one of their number, Mr William Eagle
Clarke, of the Museum of Science and Art in Edinburgh, has undertaken
the laborious task of reducing the mass of facts collected, from an
examination _de novo_ of the whole of the schedules sent in, so as to
bring out the general results of their inquiry, both statistically and
otherwise, on strictly scientific lines, and in as condensed and clear
a method as possible.


CONTENTS.


                                                        PAGE

  East Coast of Scotland,                                  1

  East Coast of England,                                  17

  West Coast of Scotland,                                 60

  West Coast of England and Wales, and the Isle of Man,   73

  Irish Coasts,                                          112


[Illustration:

MAP OF THE

British Islands

SHOWING THE POSITIONS OF THE

LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHT VESSELS STATIONS

TO WHICH SCHEDULES ARE SENT BY THE COMMITTEE.

]

                           LIST OF STATIONS.

      1. Iceland.              =England--East Coast.=
      2. Do.
      3. Faroe.                   30. Longstone L.H.
      3_b_. Fair Isle.            31. Inner Farn L.H.
                                  32. Coquet Island L.H.
  =Scotland--East Coast.=         33. 5 Buoy Tees L.V.
                                  34. Whitby High L.H.
      4. N. Unst.                 35. Flamborough Head L.H.
      5. Whalsey Skerries.        36. Spurn Point L.H.
      6. Bressay Sound.           37. Spurn L.V.
      7. Sumburgh Head.           38. Inner Dowsing L.V.
      8. N Ronaldshay.            39. Dudgeon L.V.
      9. Start Point.             40. Outer Dowsing L.V.
     10. Auskerry.                41. Llyn Wells L.V.
   { 11. Hoy Sound (Low).         42. Hasbro' L.V.
   { 12. Hoy Sound (High),        43. Leman and Ower L.V.
     13. Cantick Head.            44. Hunstanton L.H.
     14. Pentland Skerries.       45. Cromer L.H.
     15. Dunnet Head.             46. Hasbro' L.H.
     16. Holborn Head.            47. Winterton L.H.
     17. Noss Head.               48. Newarp L.V.
     18. Tarbat Ness.             49. Cockle L.V.
     19. Cromarty.                50. Corton L.V.
     20. Chanonry Point.          51. Orfordness L.H.
     21. Covesea Skerries.        52. Languard Point L.H.
     22. Kinnaird Head.           53. Shipwash L.V.
     23. Buchan Ness.             54. Swin Middle L.V.
     24. Girdleness.              55. Nore L.V.
     25. Montroseness.            56. Tongue L.V.
     26. Bell Rock.               57. Kentish Knock L.V.
     27. Isle of May.             58. Galloper L.V.
     28. Inchkeith.               59. North Foreland L.H.
     28_b_. Fidra (1885).         60. North Sand Head L.V.
     29. St Abbs Head.            61. Gull L.V.
                                  62. Eastside L.V.
                                  63. South Foreland L.H.
                                  64. South Sand Head L.V.
                                  65. Varne L.V.

  =Scotland--West Coast.=      =England--West Coast.

     81. Cape Wrath.             119. Bahama Bank L.V.
     82. Rhu Stoir.              120. St Bees L.H.
     83. Butt of Lewis.          121. Selker L.V.
     84. Stornoway.              122. Morecambe Bay L.V.
     85. Island Ghlais.          123. Dee L.V.
     86. Monach Isles.           124. Air L.H.
     87. Ushenish.               125. Menai L.H.
     88. Barra Head.             126. Skerries L.H.
     89. Rona.                   127. Holyhead Breakwater L.H.
     90. Kyleakin.               128. South Stack L.H.
     91. Isle Ornsay.            129. Carnarvon Bay L.V.
     92. Ardnamurchan.           130. St Tudwal's L.H.
     93. Skerryvore and Hynish   131. Bardsey Island L.H.
           Signal Tower, Tiree.  132. Cardigan Bay L.V.
     94. Dhuheartach.            133. South Bishop L.H.
     95. Sound of Mull.          134. Smalls L.H.
     96. Corran Ferry.           135. Great Castlehead L.H.
     97. Lismore.                136. Milford L.H.
     98. Fladda, Easdale.        137. Caldy L.H.
     99. Rhuvaal.                138. Helwick L.V.
    100. M'Arthur's Head.        139. Scarweather L.V.
    101. Skervuile.              140. Nash L.H.
    102. Rhinns of May.          141. Breaksea L.V.
    103. Lochindaul.             142. Flatholm L.H.
    104. Mull of Kintyre.        143. English and Welsh
    105. Sanda.                         Grounds L.V.
    106. Devaar.                 144. Usk L.H.
    107. Pladda, Arran.          145. Avon L.H.
    108. Lamlash.                146. Burnham L.H.
    109. Turnberry.              147. Bull Point L.H.
    109_b_. Ailsa Craig          148. Bideford L.H.
           (building, 1885).     149. Lundy L.H.
    110. Corsewall.              150. Hartland Point L.H.
    111. Loch Ryan.              151. Trevose Head L.H.
    112. Portpatrick.            152. Godrevy L.H.
    113. Mull of Galloway.       153. Longships L.H.
    114. Little Ross.            154. Sevenstones L.V.
                                 155. Wolf-Rock L.H.
  =Isle of Man.=                 156. Scilly L.H.
                                 157. Bishop's Rock L.H.
    115. Point of Ayre.          158. Lizard L.H.
    116. Douglas Head.           159. Falmouth Harbour L.H.
    117. Langness (1880).        160. Eddystone L.H.
    118. Chickens Rock.          161. Plymouth Breakwater L.H.
                                 162. Start L.H.

  =Ireland.=

      1. Fastnet.                 20. Arranmore.
      2. Galley Head.             21. Rathlin O'Birne.
      3. Old Head, Kinsale.       22. Killybegs.
      4. Mine Head.               23. Oyster Island.
      5. Dungarvan.               24. Broadhaven.
      5*.Coningbeg. Lt.-ship.     25. Eagle Island, E.
      6. Barrels Rock Lt.-ship.   26. Eagle Island, W.
      7. Tuskar.                  27. Blackrock, Mayo.
      8. Arklow S. Lt.-ship.      28. Blacksod Point.
      8*.Arklow N. Lt.-ship.      29. Clare Island.
     10. Kish Bank Lt.-ship.      30. Slyne Head, N.
     11. Howth Baily.             31. Slyne Head, S.
     12. Rockabill.               32. Arran Island, N.
     13. Copeland Island.         33. Straw Island.
     14. Maidens.                 34. Arran Island, S.
     15. Rathlin.                 36. Samphire Island.
     16. Innishtrahull.           37. Tearaght.
     17. Dunree Head.             38. Valentia.
     18. Lough Swilly.            39. Skelligs.
     19. Tory Island.             40. Dursey Island.


=Outlying Stations.=

    Heligoland,
    Stevns Fyr, Zealand.
    Malmo, Sweden.
    Casquets L.H., Alderney.
    Hanois L.H., Guernsey.




NINTH REPORT

ON

THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS

IN THE

SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1887.




EAST COAST OF SCOTLAND.

We repeat the List of Stations with Returns up to date.


EAST OF SCOTLAND.

Note: The names of the Reporters are given under "Diary from the
Stations."

               Returns
  In 1887.   in 9 years 1887.
  Schedules  including  Actual
  filled in.    1887.   returns.                            Values. Feet.

                               Shetland.

      8          7        *    4. N. Unst,                     IV.   230
                               5. Whalsey Skerries,            II.   143
                               6. Bressay,                    III.   105
      1          7        *    7. Sumburgh Head,                I.

                                Orkney.

      2          8        *    8. N. Ronaldshay,               IV.
                               9. Start Point,                  V.
                 6            10. Auskerry,                     I.
                              11. Hoy Sound (Low),              V.
                              12. Hoy Sound (High),             V.
                              13. Cantick Head,               III.
     13          9         *  14. Pentland Skerries,            I.

                               Mainland.

                              15. Dunnet Head,  Caithness,      V.   346
                              16. Holborn Head, Caithness,      V.    75
     1          2          *  17. Noss Head, Caithness,         V.   175
                              18. Tarbat Ness, East Ross,       V.   175
                6          *  19. Cromarty, East Cromarty,      V.    60
                4             20. Chanonry Point, Elgin,        V.    40
                              21. Covesea Skerries, Elgin,      V.   160
                              22. Kinnaird Head, Aberdeen,      V.   120
     1         1st         *  23. Buchan Ness, Aberdeen,        V.   130
               1st         *  24. Girdleness, Aberdeen,         V.   185
                              25. Montroseness, Aberdeen,       V.   124
  1 (one lost)  9          *  26. Bell Rock, Fife Coast,        I.    93
                              26B. Carr Rock
                                    Lightship, Fife Coast,      ?      ?
  0             8             27. Isle of May, Firth of Forth,  I.   240
  1             7          *  28. Inchkeith, Firth of Forth,   IV.   220
                2          *  28B. Fidra, Firth of
                                    Forth, instituted 1886,     ?      ?
                              29. St Abb's Head, Berwickshire,  V.   224


_Extracts from Diary from the Stations._

The following notes are selected from a large number of letters and
notes, showing the constantly increasing interest taken in the work of
the Committee:--

_N. Unst._--John Nichol (principal) says: "Ravens variously marked
were seen in June and July near Lerwick. One was jet black with white
wings. Another white head and tips of wings. Others variously marked.

"Teal and Widgeon, reckoned rare in Unst, seen 23d November. The
Starling is not of the Faroe species, but of the common species. Took
particular note of this. Breed. Make for shore in winter at night--only
with us during the day. Fewer land birds in 1887 than in most seasons,
except greater numbers of Linnets (Twites?) in day time. Stormy Petrels
were the most persistent night-callers we had. More Cormorants than
usual in winter and more Eider Ducks than in former years. No Swans
seen to date of 31st December 1887. Strange fact noted: No Solan Geese
seen between October 28th and November 20th, although for certain there
were plenty of fish about, and the weather fine."

Under date of March 7th, Mr Nichol in a letter describes a whale chase.
Two large Finners off the shore of Balta Vöe (_Physeter tursio_),
estimated at over 70 feet long. Not captured.

On 20th March a large Eagle pounced on a Hooded Crow and carried him
off, flying past going north. In August occur records of Eagles on
Hermann's Hill. Young had been destroyed [_by the selfish edict then
in force._--J. A. H.-B.]. A Little Auk, Mr Nichol says, "measured
8½ inches from point of beak to tip of tail," which is over the
measurements in Johns' Book, which he has. [We are glad to find such
care taken as this indicates.--J. A. H.-B.] Greater number of Gulls
seen than usual in September, indicating greater abundance of fish.

"On the 24th December," says Mr Nichol, "at 10 A.M.--a rare
occurrence--a flock of six Cormorants appeared, same time another flock
of six. Both flocks flying round the rock one after the other. After
once round, the hindermost flock went right away westerly. The other
went three times more round the rock, as if looking for the other
flock, _before leaving also westerly_. [Italics are mine.--J. A. H.-B.]
To date 31st December. Not one been seen since, although before daily."

Mr Nichol relates another whale hunt at Unst, on Wednesday, 28th
September 1887. Also unsuccessful.

I must pay a passing tribute to the admirable schedules sent in by Mr
Nichol, including two entirely devoted, as requested, to movements of
Solan Geese, which are sure to yield, some day, valuable information.

_Sumburgh Head._--Mr James Youngclause.--A very short single schedule.
Birds very scarce. Greenfinch found dead on 9th December. Mentions
_residents_ there, which may yet be utilised for minute records of
distribution. Arrival and departure of rock birds--not one seen after
the 12th August. No "rushes" of birds seen. (Assistant's name, Donald
Campbell.)

_North Ronaldshay._--John Tulloch.--Great numbers of Gulls on the
Island all winter, living mostly in the turnip fields. "There are 100's
(_sic_) to be seen in a field at times, feeding. They will hollow the
turnip, leaving the outside skin only. The only way to keep them away
is to shoot some, and hang them up on poles."

_Pentland Skerries._--John Gilmour (assistant keeper--not "principal,"
as in last Report).

The Crossbill occurs (see letter of 2d August 1887, and schedule under
date--22d July being date of occurrence).--"There were three of them on
the island, and they remained over a week. This is in no mistake a rare
bird here, and I have never seen it before."

"A Game Hawk was on the island a good part of the summer, and made sad
havoc among the Terns" (schedule, 10th August 1887). This may partially
account for the shifting of nesting sites of the Terns so frequently,
to which we allude elsewhere ("Vertebrate Fauna of the Outer Hebrides,"
_in the press_. David Douglas).

[Two of the schedules refer entirely to Solan Geese, as requested.
These from the various stations should be separately considered and
reported upon in the final digest.--J. A. H.-B.] They bulk about the
Pentland Firth largest in August; and only stragglers are seen by 1st
October (see letter). No great movement to date of 1st October of
other birds, except the last two days, 29th and 30th September. Rush
shortly at date expected--(see schedules). Mr John Gilmour, under date
of 5th November, sends wings and feet of a Yellow Bunting. It was shot
on the 2d November. He goes on to say--"we had not many birds here
during October, as compared with what I have seen in former years;
the wind was never in the east during the whole month. But the wind
having shifted to S.E. during the first three days of November, with a
strong gale, we have had a considerable 'rush' of Fieldfares, Redwings,
Goldcrests, Song Thrush, Blackbirds, Woodcock, Snow Bunting, and Yellow
Bunting. There is also, with little doubt, a Hoopoe, described as
seen on 9th October." All the lighthouse keepers at Pentland Skerries
assist keenly in the work, during their watches, _viz._, Messrs Mercer
(principal), M'Gaw and Dawson (assistants).

_Dunnet Head._--David Laidlaw and James Carson.--One schedule.--"Gulls
came to the cliffs to breed a fortnight earlier, and left a fortnight
earlier, about the middle of February to middle of September." Hawks
and Carrion (?) Crows (Hooded?) frequent the cliffs in the breeding
season. Gannets reported during July, August, and September, passing
and repassing in such quantities, that it would be quite impossible to
form any idea.

_Noss Head._--James Ferrier.--One schedule.--Note: "The Cormorants
breed here under the headland, and never leave all winter; go forth to
feed early, and return to rest in the evening." [Query: Is this the
real Cormorant, or only the Shag? I fancy the latter most probably.--J.
A. H.-B.]

_Buchan Ness._--William Ross.

_Bell Rock._--James Jack.--Unfortunately a spring schedule is lost.
This one dates 1st September to 21st. But the spring schedule was, Mr
Jack says, very light, and few birds seem to pass this way in spring
except Larks.

_Inchkeith._--Robert Grierson.--March 14th to October 16th, seven
entries under seven dates.


Separate Report under Genera and Species.

Turdidæ.--_Thrushes._--Returns commence in _January_, and between
1st and 23d, Blackbirds, Fieldfares, occur in small numbers, and one
Thrush on 23d; wind variable, from fresh S.W. to strong E. on 7th, rest
westerly; all at Pentland Skerries.

_February._--A single record of Blackbird at Pentland Skerries on 24th.

_March._--At Pentland Skerries, two dates of straggling Blackbirds, 3d
and 14th.

_April._--Thrushes and Blackbirds at N. Ronaldshay and Pentland
Skerries, 4th, at latter, and between then and 27th; and Ring Ouzels on
27th, with S.E. fresh on island.

_September._--Most returns from Pentland Skerries of Blackbirds and
Thrushes; winds variable, but with easterly tendency. Also one record
from Noss Head.

_October._--No great appearance; indeed, as compared with 1886,
infinitesimal. Only small items on six dates, between 10th and 31st, of
Redwings (10th), and Blackbirds, Song Thrushes (23d), and Fieldfares
(31st); winds northerly and easterly.

_November._--The above succeeded by a "perfect rush" of Fieldfares
at same station on the 1st. "Flocks all day;" and also of Redwings
(several) and two Blackbirds. 2d, Song Thrushes all day. (Winds
continuing easterly, but more to south than in October.) Yet after
this no great movement apparently at Pentland Skerries. Only other
stations recording are Dunnet Head (Fieldfares, strong N.E. breeze,
haze; and Noss Head S.S.E. gale, a few Thrushes); and at N. Ronaldshay,
Blackbirds and Thrushes; strong E.N.E. and showers.

_December._--Rush all over; only two records at Pentland Skerries of
Blackbirds on 21st and 26th.

Saxicolinæ.--_January._--6th, one "Stonechat" (Wheatear?), at 1.11
A.M.; strong S. at N. Unst.

_N.B._--This may not have been a Common Wheatear at such a date.

_March._--At Pentland Skerries one Whinchat all day; moderately W., and
showers "rare."

_April._--At Pentland Skerries, 6th, Wheatears (_sic_) all day on
lighthouse; Light N. cloudy; more by the 10th, and one _Redstart_ (or
more?) on 27th.

_May._--" Stonechats" (at N. Ronaldshay)--[probably Wheatears
_vera_.--J. A. H.-B.] on 17th; and Redstart, male, at Pentland Skerries
all day on 4th.

_June._--One only record at N. Unst, at 2 P.M. on the 6th; light S.
breeze; rested on rock.

_July._--_Blank._

_August._--At Pentland Skerries, 17th, 19th, and 23d, single Wheatears:
winds various, from light W.N.W.; moderate N. to fresh S.W. on the
three dates.

_September._--At N. Unst, one on 20th, and single occurrences on 23d
and 30th, same place.

At Pentland Skerries, one Redstart ♀ on 3d, and Wheatears again at
ditto, on 22d; and at N. Unst, on 26th, single birds.

_October._--"Stonechats," Wheatears, etc., at N. Unst, 26th, and
earlier at more southern stations; earliest at Bell Rock on 1st; rush
on 5th at _Fidra_, _i.e._, "numbers on island all day." Stations
returning in small numbers, N. Unst, Pentland Skerries, Bell Rock,
Inchkeith, and Fidra. No more records after October.

Silviinæ.--_Spring._--_March._--One Redbreast all day on 1st at
Pentland Skerries; fresh W., haze.

_April._--23d, One Redbreast on lighthouse; S.E., haze.

_Autumn._--September.--At Bell Rock, on 15th, one Robin; and at Fidra,
one on 24th.

_December._--At Dunnet Head, one; N., clear.

Phylloscopinæ.--In April.--On Pentland Skerries, on 23d and 24th; a few
all day; S.E., showers. The only spring record.

_Autumn._--_September._--At N. Unst, one W. Warbler; N., strong breeze
and showers; and at Noss Head one Goldcrest all day.

_October._--Nothing; but in November, five or six Goldcrests all day at
Pentland Skerries; S.S.E. and rain.

_December._--One Goldcrest cock; N.W. gale at Noss Head; flying about
the outhouses.

Acrocephalinæ.--_Blank._

Accentoridæ.--_Blank._

Troglodytidæ.--No records till _September_; and then only two at Bell
Rock (on 24th), and Inchkeith (28th), young birds.

_October._--One Common Wren at N. Unst; N.N.W., clear, on 2d (see W.
Nichol's Notes).

_November._--At Pentland Skerries, single birds reported; light N.W.
wind ("first seen for some time"), on 11th, 12th; at Dunnet Head, one;
light W. breeze, clear on 29th.

Motacillidæ.--_April._--7th, at Pentland Skerries, the first seen this
spring; light variable, clear. Again single birds seen on 27th, one of
Pied Wagtail and one Rays [? or the long-tailed yellow one, which is
the Grey Wagtail. Rays has very short tail.--J. A. H.-B.]

_July._--Rays Wagtail is again alluded to, but we suspect this will
turn out to be the Grey. [Yet Mr Barrington, in June 1886, _shot_ a
veritable _M. Raii_ in N. Rona!!]

_August._--One record of Wagtail at Pentland Skerries, after strong
N.W. wind on island.

_September._--At Pentland Skerries, a few Pied Wagtails, on five dates
between 3d and 22d. The most, six on the 22d; also one Wagtail at Bell
Rock on 2d; strong S. breeze.

_October._--Pied Wagtails at Pentland Skerries, fresh W., on 5th.

Anthidæ.--_January._--Rock Pipits noted at N. Unst on 29th. No more of
this species till Autumn.

_March._--At N. Unst on 7th, and again on 21st, "Mosscheepers," and at
Bell Rock, a few on 20th and 23d; S.E., fresh, and haze.

_April._--A few on 23d at N. Unst; "three or four remained all the
year."

_July._--Three at N. Unst; S.W., strong breeze. [But are these not
resident?--J. A. H.-B.]

_August._--All returns from Pentland Skerries. _N.B._--"Rush" on
afternoon of 23d, and again on 23d; light W., breeze, haze, left flying
south.

_September._--At N. Unst, numerous on 20th, and flock of five on 1st;
N., fresh, clear. A few at Bell Rock, and an increase observed on 15th
there; wind S.S.W. and S.W., light.

_October._--On 4th and 5th, a number on Bell Rock; S.W. strong breeze,
haze. Rested on rock; light breeze on 5th.

Muscicapidæ.--_August._--At Pentland Skerries, one on 10th on island;
N.W., cloudy.

_September._--At Pentland Skerries, one or more on 5th all day; fresh
N.E. Do., two or three on 29th all day; fresh E. Do., a few on 30th all
day, N.N.E., cloudy.

_October._--At Pentland Skerries, one or two all day on 5th; strong
N.W., cloudy.

From the above it is evident Pentland Skerries is a regular resting
place most seasons. No doubt the Pied Flycatcher is intended throughout.

Hirundinidæ.--May.--13th, at N. Ronaldshay, two, 5 P.M.; N.N.E., fresh,
clear. 11th, at Pentland Skerries, "Arrival of all day;" N.W., clear.
15th, do. do., all day; W.N.W., clear; on lighthouse. 26th, do. do.,
one, 12.30 P.M.; light N.E.; flying W. 14th. at Dunnet, two, 4 P.M.;
light W. breeze, clear.

_June._--26th, at N. Unst, two, 8 P.M.; S.W., clear, "rarely seen."
5th, 6th, and 7th, at Pentland Skerries, number all day; strong E.,
haze; variable and fresh. 17th, at Pentland Skerries, several all day;
moderate E.N.E. breeze, fog; flying about lighthouse,

_August._--27th, at Dunnet, two at 4.30 P.M.; S.E., clear.

_September._--1st, Pentland Skerries, three at 11.40; strong clear, E.

Fringillidæ.--_February._--6th, 17th, and 20th, Linnets (Twites?) and
Chaffinches ("rare"); the latter with S. strong breeze, haze--all at
N. Unst. [_Note._--Winds have been quite abnormal all this season
throughout; hence, also, our very fine summer.--J. A. H.-B.]

_March._--At Pentland Skerries, one seen all day (strong S.S.E., and
haze) on 22d.

_April._--26th, same place, two all day; S.E., fresh, haze on
lighthouse.

_At Pentland Skerries._--Chaffinches on the 4th, and Greenfinches on
the 16th and 19th, in small numbers. Wind, in the latter case, N.N.W.
by W.S.W. to N.E., with rain.

_December._--4th, at N. Unst, one Chaffinch (S.W., sleet) resting on
lighthouse; and on 9th, one all day; fresh N.W., snow. At Sumburgh
Head, 1 Greenfinch (fresh breeze, N., and snow) on 9th; and same day,
twelve Grey Linnets (Twites?) all day, "flying about a dyke."

_August._--At N. Unst, two Linnets (Twites?) rested on rock; W., light
breeze, clear.

_September._--At N. Unst, eighteen seen at noon; light W. breeze, fog;
flying about rock. 29th and 30th, at Pentland Skerries, Chaffinch seen
all day; fresh E., haze, and N.E., cloudy. On 30th, also seen all day.

_October._--At N. Unst, Linnet (Twites?), four seen at 10 A.M.; N.W,
fresh breeze, and snow. On 23d and 28th, _100_ (old and young) all day
time; variable light airs, haze.

_November._--At N. Unst, on 20th, "Linnets."

Emberizinæ.--_January._--Common Bunting at Pentland Skerries, one all
day on lighthouse; fresh S.W.

_April._--30th, at Pentland Skerries, one Common Bunting; moderate
N.W., clear; on lighthouse.

_May._--7th, at Pentland Skerries, one Common Bunting all day; light
S.S.E., haze; on lighthouse. And 22d, one Snow Bunting all day; fresh
N.W.

_July._--22d, at Pentland Skerries, one Common Bunting all day; strong
W.N.W., clear; on lighthouse, and till 29th.

_September._--13th to 25th, at N. Unst, Snow Buntings. Flock on 13th;
and from six to fourteen on other dates (6 dates). Winds, northerly and
westerly. Also at Pentland Skerries and Bell Rock.

_October._--5th, 14th, 20th, Snow Buntings disappeared on 5th at N.
Unst. Five reappeared with N.N.W. and snow, and disappeared at 1 P.M.
same day; and two seen on 20th. A few seen at Pentland Skerries on
11th, and again on 29th. A large flock at Dunnet on 14th; N.E., sleet.

_November._--From 1st on to 20th, numbers, increasing in quantity by
5th. 11th, with Common Buntings on 18th, and Yellow Buntings on 19th
and 20th. On 3d, at N. Ronaldshay, _hundreds_; S.E., strong, and still
on lighthouse on 23d. At Bell Rock, on 20th and 21st, a few only.

_December._--Two only, all day, on 9th at Sumburgh Head.

Alaudidæ.--No spring records; nor till September 23d, on Bell Rock,
four seen; light W., flying S.E.

_October._--Nothing.

_November._--20th, at Bell Rock, one struck, not killed, at 3 A.M.;
light W. breeze, haze.

_December._--8th, at Pentland Skerries, flock all day; moderate S.W.,
and snow; increased to-day. Same date, at Dunnet, flock of, at 10 A.M.;
light E. breeze, snow.

Sturninæ.--_In March._--Record of one Starling found dead at foot of
tower at Pentland Skerries; light W., clear.

_July._--31st, at Pentland Skerries, for several days, in one large
flock. 5th, at Noss Head, one pure white Starling at 4 A.M.; N.W.,
fresh. Flying about.

_September._--On 16th, flock of Starlings flying about, all young
birds, at Inchkeith.

_October._--At Pentland Skerries, nine; wind, N.W.; light haze on 25th.
On 27th, at same place, twenty-four (variable light airs), _old and
young_; and at Bell Rock, on 18th, one old bird; fresh W. breeze.

_November._--On 14th, six at North Unst; N., fresh breeze, snow. And
on 11th, at Pentland Skerries, _one_; N.N.E. "Struck, not killed."

Corvidæ.--_February._--At N. Unst, four Crows, 2.9 A.M., daily seen.
N.W., light, clear. And 13th, Black Ravens; N.W., fresh, haze.

_March._--At Pentland Skerries, one Jackdaw all day; light S.E.E.,
haze; on lighthouse. And again on 30th, S.W., clear; flying over. On
3d, at Noss, two Ravens flying over; fresh W. breeze. Rooks and Grey
Crows are also taken note of at N. Unst and Pentland Skerries.

_April._--24th, Rooks at N. Unst, a flock flying about. Also noted at
Pentland Skerries; and also twenty at N. Ronaldshay on 28th.

_July._--On 6th, Rooks all day at Pentland Skerries; had been there for
a week.

_August._--On 3d, one Raven at N. Unst, and one on 24th; S.E. Rested on
rock.

_September._--At N. Unst many records, but no great numbers of Ravens,
Hooded Crows; Rooks (28th, flock of eight). S.W. wind on six or seven
dates.

_October._--Here also a few returns of the same species, and one
Jackdaw on 10th at Pentland Skerries.

_November._--At Pentland Skerries Great Crows, Ravens, and Rooks; and
Ravens at Noss Head.

_December._--Grey Crows at Pentland Skerries, three dates--8th, 27th,
and 31st.

Cypselidæ.--_May._--One swift seen at Bell Rock on 3d, an early date;
light S., clear.

_August._--Two seen at Pentland Skerries on 8th at 2 P.M.; light S.W.
"Flying about the tower for insects."

_September._--One Swift all day on 16th at Pentland Skerries; light
S.E. to N.E., clear.

Cuculidæ.--_May._--Two on 18th at Bell Rock.

Strigidæ.--_September._--16th, at Pentland Skerries, one Owl; moderate
E.S.E., cloudy. "Rare."

_October._--At same place two Short-Eared Owls--one shot; N.N.E.,
showers.

Falconidæ.--One record of Falcon on February 7th at N. Unst.

_March._--Two Sparrow Hawks at N. Unst.

_June._--One Hawk at N. Ronaldshay; and various autumn records as
usual. Nothing new to be gleaned from them. Principally Sparrow Hawk
(usually meaning _Merlins_), Falcons, Kestrel, etc.

Pelecanidæ.--Cormorants.--We have not catalogued yet all the winter
colonies of the Great Cormorant, so records of this species are useful.
The only birds recorded this year on E. Coast are: _October_ 27th,
four, flying E. Wind N.W. at Pentland Skerries. _November_ 21st, flock
of thirty, resting on rock of N. Unst.

We have had a number of schedules entirely devoted to Gannets at some
of the more prominent stations, and these, with other accounts already
published, will at some future date constitute material for a very
thorough treatment of the movements of the species, and their relations
to the migrations of the Herring.

We therefore omit schedule notes on the Gannet at present. But lest our
reporters think their work thus wasted or lost, we hasten to undeceive
them, for we consider that the movements of Solan Geese, as held in
relation to their known breeding areas, and the habits and distribution
of the Herring (their principal food, if not indeed almost their _only_
food), is of most particular economic importance. Much hinges upon it
_undoubtedly_, as any one who has studied not only its habits, also the
great question of our sea-fisheries, is bound to know, or he has missed
the whole importance of the subject.

Ardeidæ.--Herons are ubiquitous, even in the "Remoter Isles," and even
where they do not breed. Their regular occurrence along and over all
our coasts, at _all_ seasons, and independent of breeding stations,
makes statistics of a value difficult to ascertain. But one thing seems
quite certain, their migrations, local movements, curious presence at
all points, and at all times, is _not_ dependent upon the movements
of _deep-sea_ fishes. The Heron's food-supplies are of a much more
cosmopolitan nature, and he finds that which he requires to keep him
at all seasons, in all weathers, at all tides; and his long neck and
legs must be of considerable service to him in all these varying
circumstances.

_Report._--_March._--7th, one Heron (N.W., clear) on lighthouse of
Pentland Skerries.

_April._--Not a record anywhere.

_May._--Two Herons at Pentland Skerries on 17th flying about
lighthouse. [Were they _old or young?_]

_June._--_Blank._

_July._--Scarcely more so. "Three Herons, on the 4th of July, circled
around the rocks of Pentland Skerries about 3.30 P.M.--the wind light
S.--and flew away again to the west."

_August._--At the same place (which either has special attractions, or
specially careful recorders--we incline to the latter), on the 26th,
two Herons "sat upon the island;" S.E. haze.

_September._--Five Herons--again at the same place--appeared; and three
on the 24th.

_October._--Two Herons sat on the rocks of the same isle on the 2d,
after encountering a fresh N. wind and cloudy sky.

_November._--One Heron, at 1.30 A.M., was seen at the same favoured
isle, but flying _north_ over the island; wind light N.W., and cloudy
sky.

Anatidæ.--_Wild Ducks_: _Eider Ducks_: _Widgeon_ or _Wild Duck_? _Teal_
or _Widgeon_? "_Wild Geese_:" _Golden Eye_.

_March._--20th, at Pentland Skerries, two Duck; and on 28th, two. (Wind
fresh S. first day, and N.W., clear, next.)

_April._--10th, at Pentland Skerries, several Eider Ducks.

_August._--26th, at Pentland Skerries, five or six at noon.

_N.B._--_September._--27th, Eider Duck at N. Ronaldshay, arrived; old
and young stay all winter. Again on 11th, at Pentland Skerries, Eider
Ducks appeared in a flock swimming round island--N.W., clear; and on
the 14th--same station--"Teal or Widgeon" [probably Teal.--J. A. H.-B.]
arose off a loch.

_October._--A "dark-coloured Duck" seen at Noss Head (?)--wind N.N.E.,
and sleet; and "_Wild Geese_" in a string on 17th flying N. at noon
past Inchkeith in the Firth of Forth.

_November._--A few single records, 2d, 3d, 21st, and 23d, at N. Unst.
Wind in order, S.E. gale. Do., E. breeze, S.S.W. breeze.

Columbidæ.--_September._--"Common Pigeon" on 3d at Bell Rock; E., fresh
breeze. [Was this a "Dooket Doo" frae Fife?--J. A. H.-B.]

Procellariidæ.--_August._--A "rush" of Petrels at N. Unst at the
glass [or only perhaps the local birds lured to the glass by
special atmospheric causes. The Storm Petrel winters at N. Unst in
their burrows there, and may be said never to be absent from the
neighbourhood.--J. A. H.-B.] There seems to have been, however,
unusually large movements of the Petrels, and W. Nichol remarked upon
it in one of his letters. Also in _September_, and less so in _October_.

Rallidæ.--Corn Crake.--_May._--10th, at N. Ronaldshay, heard for the
first time this year, and at Pentland Skerries on 16th, "arrived three
days earlier than usual!"

_September._--21st, one at Pentland Skerries, 3 P.M.; light N.W.,
cloudy.

Charadriidæ.--There is really little to be learned from the accounts of
movements of this family. Oyster-Catchers are always locally present,
so almost are Golden Plover.

Entries of Plovers and even of Oyster-Catchers are very few and far
between, and the records of _Lapwings_ add little to our _data_. Ringed
Plover receive a few notices.

Scolopacidæ.--The Woodcock is always interesting, so we take him in
detail. It is a curious circumstance that there is scarcely an entry in
the Report--or at most only two or three. Thus:--

Never appeared till _November_:--on the 1st, two ("_later than last
year_") found benighted in a S.S.E. gale with rain at Pentland
Skerries, and the other next day. Again on the 11th, one; wind N.W.,
cloudy; and one at N. Ronaldshay; light E, and clear.

_December._--Only three entries--10th, 12th, and 16th, at Pentland
Skerries and at _Dunnet_. Three birds.

Snipe, equally scarce with the last. One entry in March, and none again
till 3d of November, and no more afterwards.

Curlew has many entries, yet not so many as in 1886; but the Curlew can
only be considered as a very partial migrant, and entries are mostly of
local interest only.

We do not repeat the comparative tables given under Curlew, Woodcock,
Snipe, and Jacksnipe, which we gave in 1886 Report (8th Report, p. 24).

Of Redshanks, Sandpipers, Dunlins, there are few entries of any value
in working out our subject, and these are almost entirely from N. Unst
and Pentland Skerries in autumn. The Dunlins arrived at Pentland
Skerries at their breeding haunts on 29th April.

Laridæ.--_April._--Numbers of Kittiwakes all day, at Pentland Skerries,
on 30th April.

_May._--Numbers of Kittiwakes and Gulls on 1st at N. Ronaldshay; again
numbers on Pentland Skerries on 29th, and Black-Backed Gulls on 26th.
Terns arrived at Pentland Skerries on 12th April. [_Note._--Both Arctic
and Common Terns breed on the Pentland Skerries.--J. A. H.-B.].

_July._--Terns left Pentland Skerries on 27th, "which is earlier than
usual." Gulls still seen about the Rock at N. Ronaldshay this month.

_August._--One Skua, "_rare_," flying E.; seen at Pentland Skerries on
3d. Five or six other entries of Gulls, Herring Gulls, Black-Backed
Gulls, and Kittiwakes, all at Pentland Skerries.

_September._--Four entries of Gulls, all at Pentland Skerries, and in
great numbers; immense numbers on 16th, 18th, and 25th.

_October._--At N. Unst, flock of young Kittiwakes (wind N.W.) flying W.
on 21st, and again on 22d. A number of Gulls at Pentland Skerries on
16th and 24th.

_December._--Two Ivory Gulls at N. Unst (W., strong breeze) on 2d. Two
Iceland Gulls at N. Unst (N.W., and snow) on 10th.

Procellariidæ.--Petrels.--_August._--One on 17th and one on 23d at
Pentland Skerries at night; struck, not killed. This appears to be the
only record. They winter upon N. Unst as also, no doubt, at many other
stations.--(See forthcoming volume upon the "Vertebrate Fauna of the
Outer Hebrides," where winter colonies of Petrels, etc., will be spoken
of more fully.)

Alcidæ.--Few entries as compared with most years.

_January 1887._--At N. Unst flock of Marrots; "soon arrived this year;"
S.S.W., strong breeze, and hail. "Rare to see any so soon."

_February._--At N. Unst on 19th, Tysties, a flock of, "first arrival
early;" and on 14th, four Tysties arrived at Noss Head, where, we are
informed by the light keeper, _a few breed!_ On 15th, at same station,
a great many Marrots and Razorbills arrived.

_March._--7th, at Noss Head, Guillemots, "many more arrived to-day, and
all day;" and on 1st, "many arriving all day."

_April._--3d, at Pentland Skerries, Puffins arrived during the day,
"earlier than last year by a week." [_Note._--These arrival dates of
rock birds are always interesting, as also are their movements at other
times.]

_August._--Guillemots seen flying E. past Pentland Skerries on 4th
August, and flocks again on 6th; and by 19th, Puffins all left, and
last seen were on 15th at that station.

_September._--One Black Guillemot seen on 17th at Pentland Skerries;
fresh N.W., cloudy.

_December._--16th, at N. Unst, two young Guillemots seen; light S.
breeze.




EAST COAST OF ENGLAND.


Schedules were issued to thirty-four stations, lighthouses, and
light-vessels on the East Coast of England, and returns have been
received from thirty-one. The total number of schedules received from
all sources is eighty-four.

Wings and legs have also been forwarded, representing birds killed
or captured against the lanterns, from the Leman and Ower L.V.,
Happisburgh L.V., Spurn L.H., Cromer L.H., Kentish Knock L.V., Nore
L.V., Goodwin L.V., and Hanois L.H., Guernsey. Altogether twenty-eight
wings have been forwarded with labels and dates of occurrence.

East Coast stations included in this report are:--

  Longstone L.H.        Thomas O. Hall.
  Farn, Inner, L.H.     Thomas H. Cutting.
  Coquet Island L.H.    William Evans.
  Tees, 5 Buoy L.V.     Henry Harbord.
  Whitby High L.H.      John Odgers.
  Flamborough L.H.      Charles Hood.
  Spurn L.H.            Annie Rose Smith and J. B. Smith.
  Spurn L.V.            _Nil._
  Outer Dowsing L.V.    W. Stock and A. Bearling.
  Inner Dowsing L.V.    William King.
  Llyn Wells L.V.       T. Ditcham.
  Dudgeon L.V.          J. F. Warder and J. Harrison.
  Hasbro' L.V.          John Nicholas and B. V. Darnell.
  Hasbro' L.H.          _Nil._
  Hunstanton L.H.       W. Westmoreland.
  Cromer L.H.           C. B. Comber.
  Winterton L.H.        John Watson.
  Leman and Ower L.H.   R. Cook and John Bowen.
  Newarp L.V.           Charles Cook and George Hall.
  Cockle L.V.           C. Perfrement and E. Cole.
  Corton L.V.           J. Dove and J. H. Johnson.
  Languard Point L.H.   Owen Boyle.
  Shipwash L.V.         William Barker and D. Dale.
  Galloper L.V.         P. Page and F. Page and C. Rafe.
  Kentish Knock L.V.    W. R. Carter and William Ross.
  Swin Middle L.V.      Samuel Pender.
  Tongue L.V.           _Nil._
  Nore L.V.             Wm. Little wood (wings).
  Goodwin L.V.          Thomas Rees.
  Gull L.V.             Francis Harvey and J. Jenkins.
  South Sand Head L.V.  F. G. Foreman.
  East Side L.V.        W. Nicholls and E. le Gallais.
  Varne L.V.            William Kingsford.
  Hanois L.H., Guernsey Charles Williams.

In addition to the observations supplied by the light-keepers,
notes have been incorporated, directly or indirectly communicated
by Messrs T. H. Nelson, Redcar (12 schedules); C. Donald Thompson,
Seaton-Carew; Matthew Bailey, Flamborough; W. Eagle Clarke, Philip
Lawton, W. Cecil Scott, and F. D. Power, The Spurn; J. H. Gurney,
Jun., North-East Norfolk; O. V. Aplin, Norfolk Coast; G. Smith, Arthur
Patterson, Benjamin Dye, and W. P. Pycraft, Yarmouth; also from Mr
G. H. Caton-Haigh, Grainsby Hall, notes from Tetney and North-East
Lincolnshire; and Lord Clifton, Dumpton Park, Ramsgate, from Isle of
Thanet.

Notes also bearing on migration have been utilised from the
_Naturalist_, the _Zoologist_, and the natural history column in the
_Field_ newspaper.


Diary of Migratory Movements on East Coast of England, 1887.


JANUARY.

January 1st.--[1]_Flambro'_L.H., several flocks of Guillemot about the
cliffs. _Newarp_ L.V., nineteen Crows to W., 4 P.M.

[Footnote 1: The sequence of the stations is from north to south. The
weather reports at the various stations are given in brackets. The
symbols are those which have been adopted in the _Beaufort Scale_. The
force of the wind ranges from 0 to 12.]

January 4th.--_Tees_ L.V., large flocks Dunlin, Whimbrel, Curlew, one
Red-throated Diver, and eighteen Shelduck. (N.W., light.) _Hunstanton_
L.H., thousands of Larks, 9.30 A.M. to 3 P.M., to S.; also Lapwings.
(Wind S., B. C.) _Languard_ L.H., "owing to last night's heavy weather,
thousands of birds--Thrushes, Blackbirds, Starlings, Fieldfares,
Linnets, Skylarks, and Chaffinches--remained about the lighthouse all
day. Large flocks also passing over to the Essex Shore," _Swin Middle_
L.V., flock of Larks to E. (S. by E., 3; snow.)

January 5th.--_Farn_ L.H., Woodcock on island, 3.30 P.M. _Tees_ L.V.,
large flocks of Larks, four Redshank, two Fieldfares. (N.W.; snow.)
_Spurn_ L.H., great number of Larks, Thrushes, Fieldfares, Redwings,
and several Crows to S. Many dead outside in the bents. (S.E., 6; snow.)

January 6th.--_Farn_ L.H., Golden Plover, Redwing, Thrush, and several
Curlew. (N.E., 3; snow.) _Whitby_ L.H., Fieldfare, 6 A.M., caught at
lantern. (W., 3; O. S. M.) _Spurn_ L.H., the same as on 5th. (W.S.W.,
4.) _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., one Thrush and a Lark, 9 A.M., to W. (O. M.)
_Newarp_ L.V., number of Larks to W., 2.30 P.M. _Yarmouth_, Pochard,
Widgeon, and Tufted Ducks; frost: Fieldfares and Redwings, vast flocks
to S. _Shipwash_ L.V., Titlark dead on deck; one Lark and a Thrush
on board. (N.N.W.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., a few Larks and Starlings at
various times, almost all directions.

January 7th.--_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., Fieldfares and two Starlings on
board. Six Wild Ducks to S.S.W. _Cromer_ L.H., eighteen Red-throated
Divers fishing along shore. _Dudgeon_ L.V., Titlarks at night; five
killed. (S.E., 3.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., flock of Larks, 1.30 P.M., to W.
_Hanois_ L.H. (Guernsey), four Goldfinches, 10.30 A.M., to E. (W.N.W.,
4.)

January 8th.--_Yarmouth_, Thrushes, Blackbirds, Redwings, Larks--market
stalls glutted.

January 9th.--_Farn_ L.H., Golden Plover, Thrush, Redwing, one
Fieldfare, one Blackbird on island. (N., 1.) _Hasbro'_ L.V., eight
Skylarks, 3 P.M., caught alive. (S.E., 2; O. M.)

January 12th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Thrush, Starlings, two Blackbirds,
and one Fieldfare. (W., 2.)

January 15th.--_Yarmouth_, Peregrine Falcon.

January 19th.--_Cromer_ L.H., Thrush (4 A.M.) killed. _Cockle_ L.V.,
straggling Skylarks, one to six at a time, at intervals, E. to S.W.
and W. on 19th, and to 26th inclusive. (W. and S.W., 3.) _Nore_ L.V.,
Skylarks, 8 P.M. to midnight, round lantern; also night of 18th.
(W.S.W., 4.)

January 21st.--_Redcar_, many Larks and Lapwings to W. during morning.
(W., strong.)

January 22d.--_Redcar_, several flocks Lapwing, 3 P.M., a mile at sea
to W. (W.N.W., strong.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., about fifty Larks during
night; eight killed. (W., 3.)

January 23d.--_Swin Middle_ L.V., Larks in flocks, 50-70, to W.

January 24th.--_Galloper_ L.V., a few Larks round lantern all night.
(S.W., 4.) Also on 25th. _Hanois_ L.H., flock Larks, 4 A.M., flying
round light. (S., O. M.)

January 26th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Thrush and Skylarks. (W.S.W., 4.)
_Redcar_, three flocks of Larks at 11.30 A.M. from sea, going W.

January 27th.--_Cromer_ L.H., a few Larks and Redwings, 2.30 A.M., at
lantern. (S.W., 4; M. R.)

January 28th.--_Spurn_ L.H., Larks, 2 A.M., one killed; Chaffinches and
Sparrows, 9 A.M. (S.W.; mist.) _Galloper_ L.V., Larks and Starlings all
night; six Larks and two Starlings killed. (S.W., 4.) _Swin Middle_
L.V., Larks and Red wings, 11.30 to sunrise; eight Redwings killed.
(S.W., 2.)

January 29th.--_Galloper_ L.V., hundreds of Larks all night; sixty
killed. (S.W., 3; O. M.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., Larks and Redwings in
flocks, 50-70, 8 A.M. to W. (W.S.W., 3.)



FEBRUARY.

February 3d.--_Cromer_ L.H., Larks, Thrushes, and Redwings, midnight to
3 A.M., round lantern. (E.; clear.)

February 5th.--_Newarp_ L.V., ten Crows to W., 8 A.M. (S.W., 3.)
_Languard_ L.H., Large flock Wood Pigeons, 3.40 P.M., to N.

February 7th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Fieldfares, several Thrush. (S.S.W., 3.)

February 12th.--_Longstone_ L.H., Guillemot assembled at breeding
stations, earliest date remembered. _Cromer_ L.H., Thrushes, 10 P.M. to
midnight. (N.E., 3; drizzle.)

February 16th.--_Languard_ L.H., Bearded Tit, 7.40 A.M.; very tame;
left at noon. (S.W., 3.)

February 17th.--_Whitby_ L.H., a few Gulls at daylight arrived at
breeding quarters. _Languard_ L.H., a number of Chaffinch, Sparrows,
and Blackcaps (_Parus major?_), all mixed pitched here 9 A.M., and
remained to sunset. (N., 2; B. C. M.)

February 22d.--_Cromer_ L.H., Larks, Starlings, from 0.30 to 3 A.M.;
Fieldfares during day. _Languard_ L.H., 300 Gulls to S. (W.S.W., 3.)
_Shipwash_ L.V., Lark dead on deck, 7 A.M. (W.S.W.)

February 23d.--_Cockle_ L.V., thirty Crow circling high, 7 A.M.,
returned to W. (W.S.W., 4 and 5.) _Shipwash_ L.V., 100 to 200 Rooks,
8.15 A.M., S.E. to N.W. (S.W.; fresh.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., thousands of
Ringed Plover to S.

February 24th.--_Cockle_ L.V., two flocks Crows and Jackdaws, 7 A.M.,
high, W. to E. (S.W., 5.) _Shipwash_ L.V., thirty Crows, 8 A.M., to E.
from W. (S.W.; fresh.) _Galloper_ L.V., Larks at lantern at night; five
Larks and two Starlings killed. (S.W., 5.)

February 25th.--_Whitby_ L.H., Blackbird ♀, 5 A.M., caught at lantern.
(W.S.W., 5.) _Shipwash_ L.V., Thrush, 6.30 A.M., dead on deck. _Cockle_
L.V., fourteen Solan Geese, 6.50 A.M., going S. to N. (W.S.W., 4.)


MARCH.

March 1st.--_Longstone_ L.H., breeding place of Guillemot covered with
birds; very fine weather. _Spurn_ L.H., four Blackbirds. (W.S.W., 3.)

March 3d.--_Spurn_ L.H., several Thrushes and Blackbirds to S. (W.S.W.,
2.) _Cromer_ L.H., Redwings and Larks, 12.30 to 2.30 A.M.; Starlings
and Blackbirds during day. (S., 4.) _Galloper_ L.V., a few Larks
passing over to France, noon till dark. (Thick fog.) _Hanois_ L.H.,
small flock Starlings, 5 A.M.; several struck. (E., 1; B. C. M.)

March 4th.--_Newarp_ L.V., six Starlings and three Chaffinches on board
all night. (W.S.W., 1.) _Shipwash_ L.V., small Lark. (N.N.W., light;
dense fog.)

March 5th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Blackbirds, 11 A.M. (S.E.) _Outer Dowsing_
L.V., about 200 Black Crows flying round vessel, 11.30 A.M. (S.E.,
O. M.) _Newarp_ L.V., two Crows and four Starlings to W. (E.N.E.)
_Shipwash_ L.V., Starling at daylight (dense fog). One "Ground" Lark
flying round, 8 A.M. till noon; two Starlings caught on board.

March 6th.--_Farn_ L.H., Blackbird and Ring Ouzel. (S.W.; fog.) _Outer
Dowsing_ L.V., two Chaffinches, 9.45 A.M. (S. by E.; fog.)

March 7th.--_Spurn_ L.H., Black and Grey Crows to S. (E.N.E., 2.)
_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., three Starlings to W.; two Crows to S.W.

March 9th.--_Newarp_ L.V., large flock Crows to W., 9 A.M. (W.N.W.,
3.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., Pied Wagtail, 5 A.M., on deck. _Hanois_ L.H.,
Lapwings and Wagtails, 4 A.M. (E., 1; O. M.)

March 10th.--_Galloper_ L.V., eighteen Black Crows, 10.30 A.M., to
E.S.E.

March 11th.--_Farn_ L.H., four Gannet fishing near island. (N.E., 6.)
_Hanois_ L.H., about 100 Lapwings, 2 P.M., to N.E. (N., B. C.)

March 12th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Snow Bunting. _Languard_ L.H., Skylarks,
Linnets, and House Sparrows, 7.20 A.M., to W. (N.E., 6.)

March 14th.--_Languard_ L.H. (night, 13th to 14th), large numbers of
Wild Fowl passing over to W. (W.N.W, 2.)

March 19th.--_Cockle_ L.V., 80 Crows and Daws, 10.30 A.M., very high to
E. (W., 2.)

March 21st.--_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., two Mountain Sparrows, 5 P.M.,
flying about vessel. _Yarmouth_, Redshanks, first arrival, 7 A.M.
(S.W., light.) _Cockle_ L.V., many Crows and Daws, sunrise to noon, W.
to S.E, very high. (W.S.W., 1.)

March 22d.--_Hanois_ L.H., great many Lapwings, 7 A.M., to N.E. (W., B.
C. M.)

March 23d.--_Farn_ L.H., several Gannet. (W.N.W, 5.) _Whitby_ L.H., two
Wagtails, 6 A.M.; the first seen. _Yarmouth_, fourteen Golden Plover, 3
A.M., to W.; some with black breasts.

March 24th.--_Farn_ L.H., three Blackbirds, 9 A.M. _Spurn_ L.H.,
seventy Grey Crows to S., 7 A.M. (S.W., 5.)

March 25th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Blackbirds. (W.N.W., 3.) _Languard_ L.H.,
Kingfisher, 7 A.M., to N.E.

March 26th--_Tees_ L.V., five Wagtails. (W.) _Whitby_ L.H., several
Blackbirds, Wagtails, Titlark, and Robins, 10 A.M., and two ♂
Blackbirds, 11 P.M., at lantern. (W.N.W., 4.) _Yarmouth_, Garganey Teal
shot. _Galloper_ L.V., a few Larks all night.

March 27th.--_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., several Thrushes, 3 A.M.; two struck
lantern. (S.W. by S., O. D. R.) _Hanois_ L.H., great many Lapwings to
N.E. at 3 P.M. (W., B.)

March 28th.--_Languard_ L.H., hundreds of Oxbirds, 3 P.M., on beach.
(N., 3.) _Galloper_ L.V., two Larks. (N.E., 6.)

March 29th.--_Farn_ L.H., Great Crested Grebe, great numbers of
Guillemot and Puffin. _Galloper_ L.V., quantity of Starlings, 9 P.M.,
till sunrise; eleven killed. (N.E., 3.)

March 30th.--_Farn_ L.H., eleven Snow Bunting, 3 P.M. (S.S.E., 3.)
_Longstone_ L.H., Puffins seen in large numbers; earliest date by a
fortnight. _Galloper_ L.V., the same as on 29th.

March 31st.--_Tees_ L.V., twenty Wagtails flying S.E. to N.W. _Whitby_
L.H., one Goldcrest, 2 A.M., caught at lantern. _Cockle_ L.V., many
Crows and Daws during day, W. to S.E.; one Blackcap at sunset. Thanet,
Chaffinches; Brambling, one.



APRIL.

April 1st.--_Farn_ L.H., Great Northern Diver (N.N.E., 7) flying N.

April 2d.--_Cromer_ L.H., Starlings and Thrushes, 12.30 to 2.30 A.M.,
round lantern.

April 3d.--_Galloper_ L.V., Starlings midnight to daylight. (N.E.,4.)

April 5th.--_Spurn_ L.H., Four Redbreasts, 9 A.M. (W.N.W., 4.) Several
Swifts, 6 P.M., resting on windows and remaining all night. Great
Cotes, Wheatears, very many, all males.

April 8th.--_Hunstanton_ L.H., Wheatear. (Wind E.)

April 11th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Wheatears and one Fieldfare. (S., 4.)
_Galloper_ L.V., Swallow, 7 A.M., to N.W. (E.N.E., 5.) _Hanois_ L.H.,
Swallows to N.E., 10 P.M. In evening many about west end of island;
also Whitethroats and Willow Wrens. (E., 4.)

April 12th.--_Farn_ L.H., Wagtail, 11 A.M. (N.E., 1.) _Outer Dowsing_
L.V., continuous flocks Puffins and Wild Ducks, noon to 6 P.M., from
N.N.W. to S.S.E. _Swin Middle_ L.V., Woodcock, 9 P.M., killed. (E.N.E.,
4.)

April 13th.--_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., the same as on 12th, 9 A.M. to 3
P.M., from N.N.W. to S.S.E.

April 15th.--_Tees_ L.V., eight Titlarks and five Wagtails. (N.N.E.;
fresh.)

April 16th.--_Farn_ L.H., small birds and Wheatears, midnight. (S.W.,
1; O. M.) Flying round light. _Tees_ L.V., great number Grey Linnets to
N.W.

April 17th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Wheatears and Skylarks on island.
(W., 3.) _Spurn_ L.H., large flock Swifts to S. (S.S.E., 4) _Yarmouth_,
Common Sandpiper, 7 A.M. (N.E.; fine); shot. _Thanet_, Redstart first
seen.

April 19th.--_Cromer_ L.H., Swallow, 10.15 A.M., to W.N.W. _Thanet_,
Chiffchaff, first. (Blackcap on 18th.) _Varne_ L.V., about a thousand
Black Ducks, 9 A.M., W. to E.

April 20th.--_Spurn_ L.H., three Snow Buntings, 10 A.M.

April 21st.--_Farn_ L.H., Wheatears all day on island. _Yarmouth_,
Swallow, 3 P.M. (W.; light.) _Shipwash_ L.V., Swallow, S.E. to N.W. (E.
by N., F.) One Flycatcher on board. _Hanois_ L.H., Swallows passing, 11
P.M. (W., 3; B. C.)

April 22d.--_Whitby_ L.H., one Swallow, 2 P.M., to N. _Thanet_, White
throat, first seen.

April 23d.--_Tees_ L.V., one Golden-Crested Wren came on board, 5 A.M.

April 24th.--_Longstone_ L.H., Large Tern (_S. cantiaca_), first heard.
_Hunstanton_ L.H., one Swallow to S. _Thanet_, Ring Ouzel, first;
Willow Wren and Cuckoo.

April 25th.--_Whitby_ L.H., Ring Ouzel, 7 P.M. (W., 3.) _Thanet_,
Swallow, first.

April 26th.--_Cromer_ L.H., large flock Chaffinches to W. (N.E., 3;
clear.) _Thanet_, Whinchat, one.

April 28th.--_Tees_ L.V., one Swallow, 8 A.M., to N.W. [W.] _Redcar_,
about a dozen Gannets to E. _Cromer_ L.H., a few Wheatears. _Shipwash_
L.V., Chaffinch on board; several round lantern all night. Thanet,
Yellow Wagtail, first.

April 29th.--_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., one Redwing. _Hunstanton_ L.H.,
Cuckoo. Several Flycatchers and Whitethroats, 1 A.M. (Wind E., 2; O.
R.) _Shipwash_ L.V., Flycatchers, several flocks, 6 to 8 A.M., S. to N.
(E.N.E. to N.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., hundreds of Flycatchers, midnight to
4 A.M.; several killed. (E.N.E.) _Thanet_, Ring Ouzel, three together.
[A pair nested in a holly, but the nest, with four eggs, was destroyed
May 6th, the old birds remaining to 16th, and then left.] Forty or
fifty Redstarts; Whitethroats, twenty to thirty; Lesser Whitethroats,
two; Chiffchaff, about three hundred flitting about on pasture land;
Wood Wren, two; Cuckoo, six.

April 30th.--_Farn_ L.H., Sandwich and Arctic Tern, 5 A.M. (N.E., 3),
seen and heard flying over nesting places.


MAY.

May 2d.--_Flambro'_ L.H., two Swallows seen. Guillemots and Puffins
in great numbers. _Cromer_ L.H., Turtledove, 6.30 A.M., to W.
_Yarmouth_, Whimbrel, a few. _Hanois_ L.H., "a few Swifts round light
towards daylight. (E, 2; O. M.) A great quantity of small birds after
daylight--Whitethroats, Blackcaps, Wheatears, Willow Warblers, Wrens;
also two Stints, and what I thought a few Cuckoo."

May 3d.--_Hunstanton_ L.H., hundreds of Swallows all day to S. (S.W.,
2.) Yarmouth, Avocets, 5 A.M.: six seen, one shot.[2] _Languard_ L.H.,
one Robin and two Wrens, 6 A.M.; remained to noon, and went E.S.E.
_Shipwash_ L.V., four Flycatchers, three Pigeons, four Swallows, at
various times, S.E. to N.W.; and Goldfinches, 10 A.M., with one Yellow
Hammer. (Variable, fog.) _Thanet_, Sedge Warbler, first.

[Footnote 2: Cannot something be done to check this indiscriminate
slaughter of rare visitors during the close time? To all intents and
purposes the Act is a dead letter in Norfolk.--J. C.]

May 4th.--_Thanet_, Spotted Flycatcher, and to 11th. Pied Flycatcher on
1st--fine old male.

May 5th.--_Spurn_ L.H., four Lesser Tern, 10 A.M. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V.,
one Chaffinch, 11 A.M. (E., O. M.) _Yarmouth_, Cuckoo.

May 6th.--_Yarmouth_, Turnstone. Flock of six Turtledoves. _Isle of
Thanet_, Fieldfare, last seen; one bird.

May 7th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Swallows. (S., 3.) _Cromer_ L.H., Swift to
S.W.

May 8th.--_Farn_ L.H., hundreds of Tern, 4 to 7 A.M. (W., 1), about
nesting places. Cuckoo. _Longstone_ L.H., Small Tern (_S. macrura_),
first heard. Whimbrel, one seen. _Hunstanton_ L.H., Swift to S.

May 9th.--_Farn_ L.H., three Swallows; one Redstart. (W.N.W., O.)
_Longstone_ L.H., two Whimbrel to E.

May 11th.--_Longstone_ L.H., five Whimbrel to E. at 5.30 A.M. The
flight of Gannet is very small this year.

May 12th.--_Great Cotes_, Godwit, Pinged Plover, Dunlin, Whimbrel, and
Curlew on foreshore. _Yarmouth_, Sanderlings, 4 A.M.; number on beach.

May 13th.--_Redcar_, Whimbrel flying E. _Yarmouth_, Sanderlings and
Knots, 4 A.M.

May 14th.--_Yarmouth_, Terns, not many to this date. "In the autumn
Terns keep to the coast-line, but in the spring they follow the inland
waters, crossing Breydon and the Broad district" [A. P.]. Small flocks
of Sanderlings, 7 A.M.

May 17th.--_Redcar_, one flock Terns to E. (Wind N.; light.) _Spurn_
L.H., several Swallows, 9 A.M. _Yarmouth_, Curlew, 5 A.M.; Turnstone,
several; fresh arrivals to-day. (S.W.; strong.) _Languard_ L.H., two
Common Wrens, 2.20 P.M.; left at sunset. _Thanet_, Grey Crow last seen,
two. (Garden Warbler, first on 15th.)

May 18th.--_Yarmouth_, Turnstones, two Godwits in red plumage, one
Lesser Tern, fifteen Herons. (S.W.) _Shipwash_ L.V., two Swallows,
S.S.E. to N.N.W., and at intervals to June 4th, travelling S.E. to N.W.

May 20th.--_Spurn_ L.H., Cuckoo, 3 P.M. (N.N.W., 3.) _Cromer_ L.H.,
large number Chaffinches all day going inland. (E.S.E., 3.)

May 21st.--_Cockle_ L.V., Waterhen (mid watch), struck and fell on
deck. (S.W., 5.)

May 22d.--_Cromer_ L.H., four Turtledoves, 6 A.M., pitched on the hill,
then to S.W.

May 24th.--_Spurn_ L.H., small flock of Common Wren, 3 P.M. (N.N.W.,
3.) _Dudgeon_ L.V., three Curlews N. to S. _Varne_ L.V., ten Swallows,
9 A.M., S. to N.

May 25th.--_Spurn_ L.H., several Whimbrel flying round, 11 A.M.

May 27th.--_Cromer_ L.H., flock Sand Martins to S.W.

May 28th.--_Redcar_, about fifty Sanderlings on east sands. (N.E.;
strong.)

May 30th.--_Farn_ L.H., Wheatears and Flycatchers, midnight (S., 3;
fog), round lantern. _Yarmouth_, three Swifts.

May 31st.--_Farn_ L.H., Red-backed Shrike, 10 A.M. (S.E., 3), on
island. _Yarmouth_, Lesser Tern, three to E.



JUNE.

June 1st.--_Whitby_ L.H., Turtle Dove, 8 A.M. (E.), shot near
lighthouse.

June 2d.--_Yarmouth_, Black Terns, 7 P.M. (Strong N.E.) Grey Plover,
one.

June 3d.--_Yarmouth_, Sanderlings, four seen on beach, 5 A.M.

June 5th.--_Tees_ L.V., two Wheatears to N.W. _Northrepps_, Grey Crow
(without a tail).

June 7th.--_Cromer_ L.H., number of Chaffinches at daylight (W.N.W.,
4); none striking. _Shipwash_ L.V., two Blackbirds flying round ship, 5
A.M. (S.W., light.)

June 8th.--_Redcar_, fifteen Geese to E. _Shipwash_ L.V., Linnet and
Swallow, the former going S.E. to N.W.

June 9th.--_Redcar_, twelve Sheldrake to N.W. Large flocks of mixed
birds, Knots, Sanderlings, etc., on sands E. of Redcar at 3 A.M.

June 13th.--_Dudgeon_ L.V., one Blue Rock Pigeon; came on board; left
again, going S.W. Two Black Crows.

June 14th.--_Cromer_ L.H., a few Chaffinches, 12.30 A.M. to 2.30 A.M.
(N.E., 1), round lantern. _Cockle_ L.V., two Swallows, 8 P.M., on board
quite exhausted. (S.E., 2.)

June 29th.--_Farn_ L.H., one hen Blackbird, midnight (S., 3), against
lantern.


JULY.

July 2d.--_Farn_ L.H., several young Thrushes and Blackbirds, sunrise,
on island. (W.)

July 6th.--_Languard_ L.H., large flocks of Swallows to W., 9.15 A.M.
(N., 3; B. C. M.)

July 11th.--_Farn_ L.H., over one hundred Golden Plover, 2 P.M., high
to W. _Whitby_ L.H., young Gull first seen on wing. _Languard_ L.H.,
large number of Martins during day to S.W. (W., 4; B. C. M.)

July 14th.--_Redcar_, twelve Whimbrel on salt scar, 3.30 P.M. (W.
light.)

July 15th.--_Spurn_ L.H., Curlew and Godwit going S., 2 P.M. (S.E., 4.)

July 25th.--_Spurn_ L.H., five Black Terns, 3 P.M. (S.E., 4), along
with Lesser Terns. _Leman and Ower_ L.V., four Starlings, 6 A.M., went
W. at 9.30 A.M. (K, 2.)

July 26th.--_Cromer_ L.H., large number of Crows all day, E. to W.
(W.S.W., 3.)

July 27th.--_Redcar_, three or four Turnstone and a few Knot.

July 30th.--_Leman and Ower_ L.V., great flock Lapwing to S., 3 P.M.
(N.E., 3.)


AUGUST.

August 1st.--_Farn_ L.H., flocks of Turnstone and some Redshank about
rocks. _Redcar_, several Whimbrel; Shearwaters at sea. _Yarmouth_,
Dunlin--several young birds on beach; Redshanks. Godwit, one.

August 2d.--_Redcar_, numerous Sanderlings, a few Whimbrel, two flocks
of Lesser Tern. _Cromer_ L.H., great number young Starlings. _Leman and
Ower_ L.V., ten Sparrows, 3 A.M.; three killed. (W.N.W, 3; O. M.)

August 3d.--_Tees_ L.V., large flocks Curlew and Whimbrel, some Stints,
Grey Plover, and Dunlin. _Redcar_, three Manx Shearwaters at sea; one
Black Tern. (E., light.) _Leman and Ower_ L.V., one Brown Hawk, went
after small birds.

August 4th.--_Farn_ L.H., Roseate Tern, 6.30 P.M., one seen fishing
near island. _Redcar_, Shearwaters fairly common at sea for several
weeks past. Guillemots and Razorbills to S.E., during past week also.
_Cromer_ L.H., flock young Larks, 1 A.M., round lantern (misty); none
struck.

August 5th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Blackbirds at daylight on island.
(S.S.W., 1.) _Spurn_ L.H., Wheatears, 2 P.M. _Leman and Ower_ L.V.,
five Skylarks, midnight; one killed.

August 6th.--_Spurn_ L.H., flock of Sanderlings, 10 A.M. (S.E., 3.)
_Great Cotes_, Curlews, very many.

August 7th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Skuas chasing Tern. _Flambro'_ L.H.,
Guillemots left breeding stations. _Leman and Ower_ L.V., great numbers
of Puffins all day about ship.

August 9th.--_Tees_ L.V., Golden-Crested Wren came on board, 10 A.M.
(N.W., strong.)

August 10th.--_Spurn_ L.H., Turnstone and Sanderlings, Arctic and
Common Terns. _Flambro' Head_, Skuas and Manx Shearwaters very numerous.

August 13th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Blackbirds and Thrush (N.E., 4) on
island. Roseate Tern, shot.

August 14th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Blackbirds and Thrush all day;
several Skuas chasing Terns. _Leman and Ower_ L.V., five Swans N.W. to
S. _Yarmouth_, Dotterel, one shot on North Denes.

August 15th.--_Redcar_, a few Knot; Bar-tailed Godwit. (E.) _Spurn_
L.H., Bar-tailed Godwits, 10 A.M. _Cromer_ L.H., Cuckoo, 1.30 A.M.
(misty), round lantern.

August 16th.--_Redcar_, about twenty Curlew Sandpiper. (E., light.)
_Yarmouth_, large flock Curlew at Breydon.

August 17th.--_Redcar_, about 100 Curlew, high to N.W.; Whimbrels to
N.W., and on 15th and 16th also. _Spurn_ L.H., several Curlew, three
Redshank, 11 A.M. (N.) _Leman and Ower_ L.V., two Grey Crows at 3 A.M.
to W, (E.S.E., 3.)

August 18th.--_Redcar_, several flocks of Knot, Godwit, and Whimbrel to
N.W. (Wind N.E, light.) _Great Cotes_, large flock of Geese at 10 P.M.
_Cromer_ L.H., several young Larks, 2.30 A.M. (W., clear.)

August 19th.--_Farn_ L.H., Wheatears and Blackbirds all day on island.
_Redcar_, Curlew Sandpiper, about twenty, to N.W.; Teal, Widgeon, one
Wheatear. _Flambro'_ L.H., Wheatears in the field during day. _Swin
Middle_ L.V., a few Flycatchers, 9 to 11 P.M. (S. by E., 3.)

August 22d.--_Spurn_, Wheatears, first observed; Lesser Terns.
_Hunstanton_ L.H., number of Swallows all day. (E., light.)

August 23d.--_Farn_ L.H., several Blackbirds all day about island; one
Heron to S. _Redcar_, Common and Arctic Terns abundant at sea. _Spurn_,
Merlin, Curlew Sandpiper, 5 to 6; Green Sandpiper. _Swin Middle_ L.V.,
scores of Tern all day about vessel.

August 24th.--_Redcar_, Whimbrel and Knots to N.W. Five Richardson's
Skuas; one shot--dark variety, adult.

August 25th.--_Spurn_ L.H., one Chiffchaff, 10 A.M. (S.E.) Hundreds of
Curlew Sandpipers and a few Little Stint; four Brent Geese; Redstart, ♀.

August 26th.--_Spurn_, Redstart and Pied Flycatcher, and Wheatears,
Knot, Curlew, Whimbrel, Common Godwit, Curlew Sandpiper, Sanderling,
Ringed Plover, Dunlin, Turnstone; eight Black-breasted Golden Plover;
two Grey Plover in summer plumage; Green and Common Sandpipers.
_Tetney_, Green Sandpiper, very numerous on the Waithe-beck.

August 27th.--_Farn_ L.H., Wheatears and Flycatchers all day; Curlews,
11 P.M., calling round light. _Yarmouth_, Common Terns, first flock, 7
A.M., over Breydon. _Shipwash_ L.V., Oxbird, 2 A.M., struck and killed.
(S.S.E., light.)

August 28th.--_Whitby_ L.H., Herring Gulls left cliff with their
young. All the afternoon large flocks of Black-backed Gulls,
Black-headed Gulls, Kittiwakes, Grey Gulls, and Herring Gulls to south.
_Spurn_, Pied Flycatchers, Redstarts, Whitethroats, Willow Wrens, and
Wheatears. _Cromer_ L.H., Wren, 2 A.M., at lantern windows. _Languard_
L.H., large number Swallows and Martins, 4.30 A.M., to S.W. (S.E., 2.)
_Shipwash_ L.V., two Swifts, 7.30 P.M., flying round light.

August 29th.--_Spurn_, Kestrels numerous; Golden Plovers. _Cley and
Blakeney_, Black Tern.

August 30th.--_Tetney_, Missel Thrush, some on "fitties." (S.W., gale.)

August 31st.--_Farn_ L.H., several Redstarts. 4 P.M. (W., 2), on
island. _Spurn_, Swifts numerous at noon; Curlew Sandpiper very common;
one Reeve.


SEPTEMBER.

September 1st.--_Coquet_ L.H., Fieldfares and Blackbirds on island.
(E.N.E., 5.) _Flambro'_ L.H., "Hooded" Crows. _Tetney_, Redstart, one
seen; Pied Wagtails, numerous; Teal, Snipe, a few.

September 2d.--_Longstone_ L.H., one Grey Wagtail at 11.30 A.M., flying
to land. (S. and S.S.W., rain.) _Redcar_, Little Stint, one; one flock
Teal. (S.W., gale.) _Spurn_, great rush of birds; flocks of Knot in
summer plumage; Little Stints in large flocks, 60 to 100 together; many
Black Terns in company with the common species; the majority immature
birds. (S.S.E. to S.W., gale.) _Tetney_, Whitethroat, a few in standing
corn; also Sedge Warblers; about a dozen Yellow Wagtails; Linnets,
large flocks; Reed Bunting, a few. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., fifty Larks, 9
A.M., to S.W.

September 3d.--_Flambro'_ L.H., Wheatears and Larks, 5.50 A.M., flying
W. by N. _Spurn_, Eared Grebe, immature male, shot. Wild Geese to W.
Only one Little Stint seen. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., three Hawks, 11.30
A.M., to N.W. _Hasbro'_ L.V., one Arctic Tern alighted on deck (wing
sent). _Hanois_ L.H., several Gannet, old and young. (W., 4.)

September 4th.--_Coquet_ L.H., six Herons on island. _Outer Dowsing_
L.V., three Chaffinches, 3 P.M., to S.W. from N.E. (W.S.W., 3.)
_Yarmouth_, flocks of young Terns following the coast to the S.

September 5th.--_Longstone_ L.H., one Golden-Crested Wren, one Mountain
Finch. (N.E.) _Tetney_, Wheatears, scores. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., eight
Chaffinches to S.S.W. (W., 3.) _Cley and Blakeney_, White Dunlin seen;
Shearwater at sea.

September 6th.--_Redcar_, rush of birds--several large flocks Godwit,
during morning and afternoon, to N.W. Whimbrels, the same. Grey Plover,
Curlew Sandpiper, Godwit, very plentiful. One Little Stint shot. (S.W.
strong.) _Spurn_ L.H., four Sedge Warblers. _Great Cotes_, Redstarts on
passage.

September 7th.--_Spurn_, numbers of Redstarts, Common Whitethroats, and
Sedge Warblers, also Willow Wrens. Knot, in immense numbers; Curlew
Sandpipers, and Little Stints. Godwits very numerous. (S.W.) _Tetney_,
Whinchats and Wheatears, Pied Wagtails, small flocks. Yellow Wagtails,
very abundant in small flocks. _Great Cotes_, Wheatears, great many.
_Languard_ L.H., large number of Swallows to W., from 2.30 P.M. to
sunset. _Hanois_ L.H., two small flights of Turnstones and Redshanks on
rocks; also a few Curlew.

September 8th.--_Spurn_ L.H., several Redstarts and Wrens, 9 A.M.
(W., 3.) Short-Eared Owl; Manx Shearwater thrown up on beach. _Outer
Dowsing_ L.V., ten Larks to S.W., 2 P.M. _Cley and Blakeney_, Little
Stint, many; Curlew Sandpiper, many; Shelduck, Teal, Golden Plover,
Common Sandpipers, Reed Warbler, Wryneck, Oyster-Catchers, Whimbrel,
Turnstone, Grey Plover, two Knot. Lesser Tern, many. _Yarmouth_,
Pectoral Sandpiper shot; Curlew Sandpipers. (S.E.) _Kentish Knock_
L.V., one Flycatcher, 6 P.M. Several flocks birds in distance to N.W.

September 9th.--_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., one Hawk and ten Black Ducks, 2
P.M., to S.W. _Yarmouth_, Terns and Grey Plover, 5 P.M.

September 10th.--_Coquet_ L.H., Common Snipe, 3.30 P.M. (W.S.W., 4.)
_Spurn_ L.H., several Swifts, 6 P.M., flying round lantern; Manx
Shearwater; Grey Plover, very numerous. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., eight
Larks and Chaffinch to S.S.W.

September 11th.--_Spurn_ L.H., large flock Knot. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V.,
one Hawk to S.S.W. (W. by N., 5; C. V.) _Languard_ L.H., large number
of Swallows, 11 A.M. to 4.30 P.M., to S.W.

September 12th.--_Spurn_, Peregrine Falcon; Swifts in some numbers
daily. _Swin Middle_ L.V., six Swallows at 6 A.M. to W.

September 13th.--_Redcar_, large flocks Duck, Teal; several flocks
Grey Plover, Godwits, Dunlin, Knot, Oyster-Catchers; one flock Curlew
Sandpiper, all to N.W. (Gale N., rain.) _Tetney_, Pied Wagtails,
numerous; Swift. _Yarmouth_, Alpine Swift, afternoon and evening,
flying with about thirty Common Swifts; was subsequently shot.

September 14th.--_Spurn_, Willow Wrens, Tree Pipits, and Common
Whitethroats. Wood Sandpiper shot. _Cley and Blakeney_, Pied
Flycatcher, four Redstarts, small arrival of Titlarks; Curlew Sandpiper
and Little Stints very numerous; Knot and Grey Plover, many; Turnstone,
scarce. _Cockle_ L.V., two flocks, of about fifty in flock, Pochard
Ducks, to N.N.W. _Hanois_ L.H., flight Yellow Wagtails to E. at 11
A.M., some settled on rock. (W.N.W., 3.)

September 15th.--_Spurn_, Temminck's Stint, one shot; altogether three
seen. Tetney, Swallows, an immense flock to E. _Hasbro'_ L.V., two
Whitethroats (wings sent), 3 A.M. (W.S.W., 4.) _Cromer_ L.H., Osprey,
3 A.M., shot from flagstaff. (Gloomy, rain.) _Cockle_ L.V., two
Chaffinches on board (one died). (W.S.W., 4.) _Languard_ L.H., rush of
Skylarks, Grey Linnets, Chaffinches, Sparrows, and Starlings, from 8
A.M. to noon, to N.E.

September 16th.--_Tees_ L.V., large flocks of Widgeon; flock of Dunlin;
large flocks Curlew and Whimbrel, and a great number of Swallows, the
latter flying S. Immense numbers of Grey Plover on the sands about
this date. _Spurn_, several Redbreasts, 9 A.M., and Chaffinches; large
flocks of Knot, Dunlin, Curlew Sandpiper, Grey Plover, Bar-tailed
Godwit; one Jacksnipe; several Little Stints. _Hasbro'_ L.V., one dozen
Larks, two Curlew, 10 P.M., round lantern. _Newarp_ L.V., four Swallows
on board, 9.30 A.M., and then to E.

September 17th.--_Coquet_ L.H., Sandwich Terns, great many fishing
round island. _Whitby_ L.H., Larks, large flocks during morning to S.
(N:, 3.). _Cromer_ L.H., Curlews, W. to E. _Newarp_ L.V., small flock
Larks, 7.50 am, E. to W. Fifteen Black Ducks same direction. _South
Sand Head_ L.V., twelve Flycatchers, midnight, one killed. (E.N.E., 3.)
_Hanois_ L.H., several Wagtails all day. (W.S.W., 1; showers.)

September 18th.--_Redcar_, one Snow Bunting. (N., light.) _Varne_ L.V.,
about 1000 Black Ducks, 9.45 A.M., N.N.E. to W.S.W. (N.E., 5.) Twenty
Starlings, 7 A.M., N. to S.S.E. _Hanois_ L.H., great many Swallows to
S., very low. (E., 4; B. C. V.)

September 19th.--_Farn_ L.H., Lapwings and Golden Plover, large flocks
of Dunlin and Turnstone, also Purple Sandpiper about island. (W.N.W.)
_Seaton-Carew_, three Woodcocks flushed out of beanfield. _Hanois_
L.H., Linnets, large flock, just after sunrise. (E., 4; B. C. V.)

September 20th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Great Northern Divers flying S.
_Redcar_, several flocks Larks to S.W.; also Ducks to N.W. Thirty
Richardson's Skua, high to N.W., and screaming. Two or three Snow
Buntings and Shore Larks to N.W. _Spurn_, about a dozen Little Stint.
_Cromer_ L.H., rush of Thrushes, Redwings, Wheatears, and Larks, 12.30
to 3 A.M. (E., 3), flying round lantern in large numbers; few struck.
Also on 21st, 23d, 24th, and 25th, between the same hours; on the 25th
with Woodcock. _Yarmouth_, Common Swift, 7 A.M. _Goodwin_ L.V., Wryneck
(wing sent). _Hanois_ L.H., several Swallows, 8 P.M.; several struck
lantern; two caught. (E.N.E., 4; C. M.)

September 21st.--_Spurn_, one Jacksnipe shot; Lesser Whitethroat.
_Tetney_, Common Sandpiper. _Cromer_ L.H., the same as on 20th.
_Cockle_ L.V., eight Larks, 8 A.M. (N.E., 2.) _Kentish Knock_ L.V.,
several flocks Larks to W. _Hanois_ L.H., Golden-Crested Wrens and
Wagtails; several killed. (E.N.E., 4.)

September 22d.--_Coquet_ L.H., large and small Terns all day. _Tees_
L.V., a great many Swallows flying S. _Spurn_, Stonechats very
numerous; all the Hedgerows alive with them. _Tetney_, Common Bunting,
a few. _Llyn Wells_ L.V., several flocks Ducks (S.E. to N.W.) during
day. (N. by E., 2.) _Yarmouth_, Hooded Crow, two seen.

September 23d.--_Longstone_ L.H., one Goldcrest at noon. Peregrine
Falcon, at 4.30 P.M. (N. and N.E.) Great Cotes, Woodcock. _Cromer_
L.H., the same as on the 20th. _Corton_ L.V., Black Crows, large
flocks, noon to sunset, to N.W. and W. (N., 4.) _Gull_ L.V., large
flock Black Geese, 5 P.M., to S.W. (N.E., 4.) _Hanois_ L.H., several
House Sparrows, a few Wheatears and Sparrow Hawk at sunrise. Large
flight Swallows to S.E. at 10 A.M. (E., 4; B. C. M.)

September 24th.--_Cromer_ L.H., the same as on the 20th. _Kentish
Knock_ L.V., fifty Larks, 5 P.M. Thrushes and Larks all night. (N. by
E., 4.) _Goodwin_ L.V., flock Sparrows about deck all day. _Gull_ L.V.,
several flocks Linnets, 11 A.M., to W. (N.E., 4.) _Hanois_ L.H., twenty
Swallows at 2 P.M. to S.E.

September 25th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Redwing, 10 A.M., about gardens.
(W., 1.) _Longstone_ L.H., three Jacksnipe at 3 P.M. (N.) _Redcar_, one
Grey Crow and a few Larks. _Spurn_, Ring Ouzel. _Cromer_ L.H., the same
as on the 20th. Also numbers of Woodcock, 11.30 to 2.30 A.M. (S.E.,
4.) "Never saw so many Woodcock at one time before; seemed to be a
constant stream flying round lantern; none struck." _Newarp_ L.V., one
"Red Linnet" dead on deck. _Corton_ L.V., Larks and Starlings, 9 A.M.
to 3 P.M., to W.S.W. _East Goodwin_ L.V., flocks Wild Ducks, S.E. to
N.W. (N.N.W., 4.) _Hanois_ L.H., two large flights of Goldfinches, and
a great many Swallows passed at the same time, 6 A.M.; a few Wagtails
during morning. (N.E., 2; B. C.)

September 26th.--_Redcar_, a few Skylarks, and Shore Larks and Snow
Buntings to N.W. (N.W., light.) _Winterton_ L.H., Chaffinch, 5 A.M., on
lantern. (S.W., 3.) _Leman and Ower_ L.V., two Jacksnipes, 6 A.M. (O.
M.); one killed (wing sent). _Corton_ L.V., flocks Larks, Starlings,
Blackbirds, and Thrushes, 7 A.M. to 4 P.M., to W. _Gull_ L.V., flocks
Larks and Starlings at noon to W. (W.S.W., 3.) _East Goodwin_ L.V., a
few Larks (E. to W.) at daylight.

September 27th.--_Farn_ L.H., hundreds of Black-Headed Gulls fishing
N. of island. _Coquet_ L.H., flocks of Wild Ducks all day. (N., 5.)
_Whitby_ L.H., Swallows, thirty young, resting on walls, 4 P.M., and
then going S. _Tetney_, Thrush and Blackbird, numerous; Kingfisher,
Snipe small flight. _Corton_ L.V., flocks mixed Crows, 11 A.M. to 4.30
P.M., to N.W. (W.S.W., 3.)

September 28th.--_Longstone_ L.H., one Goldcrest, one Chaffinch, one
male Blackbird. _Redcar_, one young Iceland Gull to N.W. at 3 P.M.;
another at 4 P.M. _Yarmouth_, Red-Necked Phalarope, ad. ♀, shot on
Breydon. _Corton_ L.V., Larks and Chaffinches, 9 A.M. to 11 P.M., to
N.W. Three flocks Fieldfare, noon to 1 P.M., to W. _Hanois_ L.H., large
flight Goldfinches or Linnets (too far to see what they were) at 8 A.M.
Flight of Swallows, 11.30 A.M. (N.W., 3.)

September 29th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Chaffinch, sunrise. (S.E., 6.)
One Fieldfare, 9 A.M. _Longstone_ L.H., Chaffinch, Goldcrest, Thrush,
Redbreast, each one. (E.N.E.) _Spurn_ L.H., four Snow Buntings, 10 A.M.
(N.N.E., 3.) Great migration of Redbreasts; Wheatears and Stonechats
numerous. _Tetney_, two Stonechats, Redbreast, Widgeon. _Cromer_ L.H.,
few "Blackcap" (Stonechats?) and Chaffinches all day about lighthouse.
_Newarp_ L.V., eighteen Skylarks S.E. to N. _Cockle_ L.V., about
fifty Larks to W. _Galloper_ L.V., two Sparrows all night. _Kentish
Knock_ L.V., Thrushes, Larks, and Starlings all day to N.W. Thirty
House Sparrows, 2 P.M., on deck. _Gull_ L.V., several flocks Mountain
Sparrows, 2 P.M., to S.W.

September 30th.--_Longstone_ L.H., one Chaffinch. A few Redwings
heard passing at 4.15 A.M. and 5 A.M. One Woodcock to mainland at 1
P.M. (N.E.) _Coquet_ L.H., many Eider Ducks, chiefly females, at sea
off island. _Spurn_, Goldcrests, very many; Blackcap and Redstart.
_Tetney_, Ring Ouzels, Wheatears, Redbreast--one on the Haile Sand
off North Cotes was so exhausted that it was taken by hand. (N.E.,
very strong.) Oyster-Catcher, immense flock on coast; Snipe, several
fresh arrivals. _Leman and Ower_ L.V., great flock Grey Geese, S. to
N.W. (E.N.E., 4.) _Yarmouth_, Short-Eared Owl, 3.30 P.M. _Corton_
L.V., fifty Carrion Crows passed close to vessel to N.W. at 11 A.M.;
and large flocks Larks, 7 A.M. to 3 P.M., low to W.S.W. (N.E., 4
and 5.) _Galloper_ L.V., Larks in flocks, 9 A.M. till noon, to W.
_Kentish Knock_ L.V., Thrushes, Starlings, Larks--all day to N.W.; two
Chaffinches, twelve Sparrows, one Flycatcher. (E.N.E., 3.) _Goodwin_
L.V., Redbreast found dead. _East Goodwin_ L.V., Larks, a flight, 8.30
A.M., E.N.E. to W.


OCTOBER.

October 1st.--_Farn_ L.H., one Common Wren, 10 A.M. (N.E., 4.) Hundreds
Lapwings all day to and from land. _Coquet_ L.H., large flocks of
Wild Ducks to N.; also on 2d. _Redcar_, great rush of Ducks to N.W.,
early morning to noon; forty to fifty flocks, thirty to fifty each;
were chiefly Widgeon. (N., moderate.) _Spurn_, A few Siskins, many
Redwings, Spotted Woodpecker. _Tetney_, Grey Crows daily. Great Spotted
Woodpecker (Covenham), and another same locality near this date.
Lapwing in large flocks to S. _Great Cotes_, pair of Ravens seen at
Croxby Lake. _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., fifty Skylarks, S.E. to N.W. (N.,
4.) _Cromer_ L.H., flocks Greenfinches. _Kentish Knock_ L.V., three
Flycatchers rested, and then to N.W. Several flocks small birds to N.W.
_Goodwin_ L.V., a few Sparrows about deck and rigging. _Gull_ L.V.,
about eighty Geese to S.W. (N.E., 3.) _East Goodwin_ L.V., Starlings,
Larks, and Sparrows, forenoon, E. to W. (E.N.E., 4.) _Varne_ L.V.,
about 2000 Sparrows, 9 A.M., S.E. to N. (N.E, 4.)

October 2d.--_Farn_ L.H., small flock Skylarks (N.N.W., 3) to W.
_Longstone_ L.H., Lapwings from daylight to 10 A.M. (N.W.) _Tees_ L.V.,
one Sparrow; also "Mountain" Sparrow came on board, 9 A.M. Twenty
Barnacle Geese on sand. _Redcar_, flock of 100 Curlew, three to four
miles at sea, heading for land. (N.E, light.) One Black-throated Diver.
_Great Cotes_, great many Redbreasts, particularly in hedgerows near
coast. _Leman and Ower_ L.V., Larks, 5 P.M., two killed at night; left
with Curlews. (N, 5.) _Corton_ L.V., Ducks and Starlings at intervals
to W. _Varne_ L.V., about 4000 Sparrows, 10.30 A.M., S.E. to N. (N.E.
by E., 3.)

October 3d.--_Longstone_ L.H., Lapwings from daylight till noon,
at which time the flight was most extraordinary--a complete cloud
of birds. (N.W. to N. by E., light.) _Redcar_, large flocks Skuas
(white-breasted and long-tailed), probably Pomatorhine, four miles
at sea, to N.W.; four Grey Crows. _Spurn_ L.H., two Woodcocks, 9 A.M.
(N.N.W., 3.) Wren killed, 4 A.M. (wing sent). _Inner Dowsing_ L.V.,
eight Black Crows, N.E. to S.W. _Newarp_ L.V., seven Skylarks S.E. to
W.; one Wren on board. _Corton_ L.V., flocks Larks and Thrushes, 8 to
10.30 A.M., to W.S.W. (N., 4.) _Galloper_ L.V., Larks, noon to 3 P.M.,
to W. _Kentish Knock_ L.V., forty Larks, 10 A.M., to N.W. _S. S. Head_
L.V., Larks, 8 A.M. to 4 P.M., to N.W. (N.W., 5.) _East Goodwin_ L.V.,
Owl, at noon, E.S.E. to W.N.W. _Varne_ L.V., about 4000 Sparrows, 11.45
A.M., S.E. to N. (N.N.E, 3.)

October 4th.--_Farn_ L.H., hundreds of Lapwing all day to and from
land. (N., 1.) _Redcar_, Gold-Crested Wren to N.W. _Spurn_ L.H., one
Snipe, 2 P.M. _Cley and Blakeney_, many Rock Pipits, one Snow Bunting,
immature Black Tern; great many Ringed Plover and Dunlin; Bar-tailed
Godwit, a few; one Curlew Sandpiper, Knot, Grey Plover, Greenshank, one
Ruff; enormous concourse of Lapwing; two Skuas. (N.E., fresh to light.)
_Corton_ L.V., flocks Black Crows at intervals to W. _Varne_ L.V.,
about 5000 Sparrows, 2.10 P.M., S.E. to N. (N.N.E, 5.)

October 5th.--_Whitby_ L.H., sixty-five Grey Geese, 4 P.M. to N.
(N.N.W, 1.) _Tetney_, Grey Wagtails. _Cromer_ L.H., Whimbrel, flock.
(S.W., 4.) _Cley and Blakeney_, few Godwit, a score of newly arrived
Snow Buntings, two Twites, some Stonechats. (N.E. to E.) _Kentish
Knock_ L.V., fifty Starlings, 5 P.M. to W.N.W. _S. S. Head_ L.V., Rooks
at noon to N.W. (E.N.E., 5.)

October 6th.--_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., six young Starlings (two caught),
S.W. to N.E.; one Pigeon to S.W. _Hasbro'_ L.V., twelve Skylarks, two
Wrens, fourteen Starlings and Chaffinches, two Redbreasts, and two
Redwings about lantern all night--6th and 7th--(N.N.W., 2; O. M.); went
W. at sunrise. _Hunstanton_ L.H., Chaffinch caught against lantern.
(W.N.W.) _Cley and Blakeney_, more Grey Plover, many Larks, a few
Goldfinches. (N. to N.W.) _Leman and Ower_ L.V., Starlings, 4 P.M.: one
killed. _Newarp_ L.V., a few Larks, 8.10 P.M., round lantern. _Corton_
L.V., three Fieldfares, 7 P.M., round lantern. _Kentish Knock_ L.V.,
Starlings, Larks, Flycatchers, one Chaffinch, round lantern at night.
(N.N.W., hazy.) _Goodwin_ L.V., flock Starlings N. to S. (E.N.E.,
5.) _Gull_ L.V., continuous flocks Linnets, 10 A.M. till noon, to W.
_Varne_ L.V., about 400 Sparrows, 6.30 A.M., S.E. to N.W. (E.N.E., 4.)
_Hanois_ L.H., two Pied Wagtails, 7.30 P.M. (E.N.E., 2.)

October 7th.--_Spurn_ L.H., one Pied Wagtail, 3 P.M. (W.) _Tetney_,
Jack Snipe, first arrival. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., six Starlings, one
Chaffinch, to W.; seven Black Ducks, N. to S. _Inner Dowsing_ L.V.,
two Starlings, 9 P.M., killed. _Cley and Blakeney_, Peregrine Falcon,
increase of Meadow Pipits, Purple Sandpiper, Golden Plover, about 100
Curlews, twelve Grey Crows, from sea at 10 A.M.; a few Reed Buntings.
(W.N.W. to W.) _Leman and Ower_ L.V., Linnet killed striking (wing
sent). _Newarp_ L.V., one Black Crow stopped to rest, and then to N.W.
_Yarmouth_, Grey Wagtail, ad. ♂. _Galloper_ L.V., a few Larks, Linnets,
and Chaffinches, all day to W. (N., 4.) _Gull_ L.V., about twenty Black
Crows flying round light at 7.30 P.M. _S. S. Head_ L.V., 100 Ducks,
10.30 A.M., to W.S.W. _Hanois_ L.H., one Lark, 8 P.M., not killed.
(N.N.E., 3.)

October 8th.--_Farn_ L.H., great many Gannets, twenty Linnets, 3 P.M.;
three Grey Crows, 5 P.M. (N.E., 3.) _Coquet_ L.H., large flock Wild
Geese to N. (N.E., 7.) _Whitby_ L.H., Large flocks Skylarks, Linnets,
Finches, and other small birds (E. to W.), flying high. _Flambro'_,
Skuas, Gulls, Gannet, etc., to N., in continuous flocks and streams;
also Scoters. (Wind E.N.E., 6.)[3] _Tetney_, Black Backed Gulls,
thousands on sands, mostly _L. fuscus_, both old and young birds.
_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., one Fieldfare, one Common Wren, two Goldcrests,
four Thrushes, S.E. to N.W. (N.E., 2; C. V.) _Inner Dowsing_ L.V.,
twelve Black Crows from E. to W. _Hasbro'_ L.V., large flocks Larks and
Starlings, 10 A.M. to sunset, E. to W. _Hunstanton_ L.H., Grey Crows,
11 A.M., to S. (N., 3.) _Cley and Blakeney_, Wheatears; Goldfinches,
twenty-five and ten; one Curlew Sandpiper, E. _Newarp_ L.V., fifty-six
Black Crows, 1.15 P.M., S.E. to N.W. _Yarmouth_, Shorelark, one netted
on Denes. Larks all night coming in. _Cockle_ L.V., Skylarks in small
flocks during day to S.W. and W. Starling killed. _Corton_ L.V., one
Sparrow-Hawk to N.W. _Kentish Knock_ L.V., Larks and Starlings and
small birds to N.W.; and small birds round lantern at night. _Gull_
L.V., continuous flocks Larks, Sparrows, Starlings, 8 A.M. till noon,
to W. _S. S. Head_ L.V., Larks, forty, at 3 P.M., to N.W. _East
Goodwin_ L.V., Larks and other small birds, forenoon, E.S.E. to W.N.W.
(W.N.W, 3.) _Hanois_ L.H., a few Swallows passing at midday.

[Footnote 3: Mr Matthew Bailey reports--"Skuas, Little Gulls, and
Shearwaters in some numbers early in October; also some Fulmar Petrels,
one immature Sabine's Gull shot, and a Grey Phalarope."]

October 9th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Thrushes. (N.E., 4.) _Coquet_ L.H.,
Woodcock, 10 A.M., on island. (N.E., 6.) _Tees_ L.V., fifteen Grey
Crows to N.W. (Wind E.) _Seaton-Carew_, a few Goldcrests arrived.
(N.E., gale.) _Redcar_, twenty to thirty flocks Duck to N.W. Five
Woodcock; Short-Eared Owl. (E.N.E., strong.) _Tetney_, Redwings,
considerable migration. (N., light, rain.) _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., 300
Skylarks, two Sparrow-Hawks, N.E. to S.W. One Goldcrest, on board; one
Robin, dead on deck. _Hasbro'_ L.V., same as previous day. _Cromer_,
several flocks Scoters to W. Flock 100 Chaffinches on Lighthouse
Hill. _Winterton_ L.H., Chaffinch and Lark, 10.30 P.M., on lantern.
Great many Crows at noon. _Newarp_ L.V., Larks all day, S.E. to W.
_Yarmouth_, Larks coming in from sea, and continuous to daybreak over
town. _Cockle_ L.V., Larks, large flocks, continuous during day, S.W.
to W. Sparrow-Hawk; forty Crows at 11.30 A.M. to W. (W.N.W., 2.)
_Corton_ L.V., Larks and Starlings, sunrise to 4 P.M., continually to
W. Thrushes and Chaffinches at 7 P.M.; Fieldfares and "Flycatchers,"
7.30 P.M. (very calm.) Large quantity of Black Ducks on water.
_Galloper_ L.V., Larks and Linnets all day to W. Larks at lantern at
night. (S.W., 4.) _Kentish Knock_ L.V., Thrushes, Chaffinches, Larks,
and Linnets all day to W.N.W. Large number of Sparrows roosted on ship.
Wings of six Bramblings sent. Thousands of birds round lantern at
night, Plover, Starlings, Larks, and Chaffinches. (Ninety larks killed,
many overboard.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., Larks and Sparrows at intervals
all day to W.N.W. _Goodwin_ L.V., Larks and Starlings all day, many
striking lantern. (E., 6.) _Gull_ L.V., continuous flocks Linnets and
Sparrows, 7.15 A.M. till noon, to W. _S. S. Head_ L.V., twelve Larks,
4 P.M., one killed, to N.W. _East Goodwin_ L.V., various small birds,
evening. Larks and Starlings striking lantern.

October 10th.--_Farn_ L.H., one Redstart. (E.N.E., 6.) Three Chaffinch
and two Thrush. _Coquet_ L.H., Greenshank shot. _Redcar_, flight Duck,
Widgeon, and Teal. Two Woodcock; three or four small flocks Skua to
N.W. Two Fulmar Petrel, three Goldcrests. (N.E., gale.) _Flambro'_,
Woodcocks, rush; several shot. (N.E., gale.) _Spurn_ L.H., Greenfinches
and Starlings. (N.N.E., 6.) _Tetney_, Missel Thrush abundant with
Blackbirds; Meadow Pipits and a few Redwings. (N., gale, rain.)
Wild Duck, many. Greenshank, very many. =Outer Dowsing= L.V., one
Greenfinch, two Larks, caught on board. _Cromer_ L.H., Larks, Thrushes,
and Blackbirds, 1 A.M. to 2 A.M. (S., 3; M. R.) One Blackbird killed.
_Cley and Blakeney_, Goldcrest, also a few Reed Bunting. (N.E.,
squally, rain.) _Winterton_ L.H., Sparrows, great flock passing, 3
P.M.; one white bird amongst them. _Newarp_ L.V., two Fieldfares and
one Starling, dead on deck. (N. by W., 3.) _Yarmouth_, Snow Buntings,
three. _Corton_ L.V., Larks and Starlings, 8 A.M. to 2 P.M.; three
flock Crows, 11 A.M. Fifty Chaffinches, 11.30 A.M. _Languard_ L.H., two
Woodcocks, 6.15 A.M., striking lantern; one killed, the other wounded.
(N., 5.) _Galloper_ L.V., large flocks Larks, Chaffinches, and Linnets,
9 A.M. to 4 P.M., to W. Hundreds Starlings, Larks, and Chaffinches
striking, 9 to 11 P.M. (156 Larks, twelve Starlings, twenty-four
Chaffinches killed.) (E.S.E., 4.) _Kentish Knock_ L.V., Crows in large
numbers to W. Larks, Chaffinches, and Sparrows. _Swin Middle_ L.V.,
Chaffinches, Starlings, and Plover at night (12 striking). Larks in
day. _Gull_ L.V., continuous flocks Larks, Linnets, Sparrows, 9 A.M.
to noon, to W. East _Goodwin_ L.V., few small birds all day, E. to W.
(N.W., 6.)

October 11th.--_Redcar_, Short-Eared Owl; great many Larks, up to 2
P.M., to W. _Whitby_ L.V., three Woodcocks, shot close to lighthouse.
(N.N.W., 8.) _Spurn_, Common Buzzard shot. _Hunstanton_ L.H., Grey
Crows to S. at noon. _Cromer_ L.H., two Redbreasts, midnight,
at lantern window. _Cley and Blakeney_, some Thrushes, Redwing,
Redbreasts, Chiffchaff, Twites, Turnstone, Sanderling; 100 Grey Crows
at daybreak from sea. Larks from E. in afternoon. (W., strong.)
_Newarp_ L.V., one Greenfinch and one Goldcrest on board, easily
caught, 3.10 P.M. _Yarmouth_, Woodcock, 6 A.M., flying over town.
_Kentish Knock_ L.V., Starlings and Larks all day, also night. (N., 5.)
_East Goodwin_ L.V., Larks in forenoon, E.S.E. to W.N.W.

October 12th.--_Spurn_, Common Buzzard shot. _Tetney_, Greenshank,
several. Richard's Pipit seen. Larks, great many flocks to 12 A.M.
coming in. _Cley and Blakeney_, Woodcock flying in from sea. Twites,
great increase. Redwings, Rock Pipits, many. (W., strong.) _Winterton_
L.H., Lapwings, great many at 3 P.M. (W.N.W., 5.) _S. S. Head_ L.V.,
flocks Starlings and Larks, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M., to N.W. (N.W., 3.)

October 13th.--_Farn_ L.H., two Snow Bunting, 11 A.M. (N.N.E., 7.)
_Coquet_ L.H., two Golden-Crested Wrens on island. _Redcar_, one
Short-Eared Owl; Purple Sandpiper. _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., fifty
Starlings, forty Skylarks, twenty-one Black Crows, E. to W. _Cromer_
L.H., Crows all day, E. to W. Several Hawks, daylight to noon. _Cley
and Blakeney_, Blackbirds, Grey Geese, about a score. (W., strong.)
_Winterton_ L.H., one Wood Pigeon to S. _Newarp_ L.V., Larks and
Starlings, during day, E. to N.W. _Corton_ L.V., sixty Titlarks, twenty
Carrion Crows, close past vessel, to W. and N.W. _Swin Middle_ L.V.,
Larks at intervals all day to W.N.W. _S. S. Head_ L.V., Starlings and
Larks, 9 A.M. to 4 P.M., to N.W. (N.N.W., 3.) _East Goodwin_ L.V.,
House Sparrows during day, some alighting on board, S.E. to N.W.

October 14th.--_Coquet_ L.H., Woodcock, 11.10 A.M. (N.E., 9.) _Tetney_,
Redwings and Blackbirds, very numerous. (N., strong, hail.) Great Tit
in very considerable numbers; Swallows, a few. Magpie, a flock of a
dozen in Grainsby Park, a great many appearing about this date. Larks
by hundreds in fields; Greenshank, a few. _Cley and Blakeney_, two
Woodcocks in scrub. (N., very strong.) _Newarp_ L.V., Larks passing
all day, E.S.E. to N.W. (W. by E., 7, 8.) _Yarmouth_, Woodcock, shot on
Denes. _Languard_ L.H., Golden-Crested, Wren. _S. S. Head_ L.V., flocks
Larks and "Ducks, 10 A.M. to 3 P.M., to W.N.W. _East Goodwin_ L.V., few
Larks at noon, S.S.E. to N.N.W. (N.W., 6.)

October 15th.--_Coquet_ L.H., half-a-dozen Starlings, one Redbreast.
_Redcar_, Short-Eared Owl and Woodcock, nine Long-Tailed Ducks (one
old one) (N. gale). Thousands of Scoters on sea between Redcar and
Marske. Flock of about forty Long-Tailed Ducks seen in the Tees bay
about this date. _Whitby_ L.H., Woodcock, 9 A.M., shot. Thousands large
Grey Gulls, 4 to 5 P.M., to N. high. (N.N.E., 5.) _Tetney_, Redshank,
large flock. _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., large flock Crows, S.E. to N.W.
(N.E., 6.) _Hasbro'_ L.V., Black and Grey Crows, noon to sunset, E.
to W. _Leman and Ower_ L.V., great flock Crows, S.E. to W. _Newarp_
L.V., Larks and Black Crows all day in flocks, E. to N.N.W.; a few
Sparrows, one Greenfinch caught. (N.E., 7.) _Yarmouth_, Sand Martin,
shot on Breydon. Spotted Crake at Horsey. Rooks, large arrival from 3
P.M.; flight of Woodcock at daybreak. (N.E., 6.) _Cockle_ L.V., Crows,
large flocks at frequent intervals, noon to sunset, E. to W. (N.N.E.,
7.) _Corton_ L.V., Starlings, Larks, Linnets, and small birds, 2 P.M.
to 4 P.M., to W. (N.N.E., 7.) Black Crows, 4 P.M. to 5.15 P.M., as far
as the eye could see, from E. to W., flying W. _Galloper_ L.V., Crows,
Starlings, Larks, noon to sunrise, to W. (N., 10.) _Kentish Knock_
L.V., Crows reached for miles, noon to dark; some tried to rest, going
E. to W. Thrushes, Starlings, Larks, and many others in the distance.
(N.N.E., 8.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., Black Crows, 160, 4.30 P.M.; Larks at
intervals; Starlings to W.S.W. _Thanet_, Great Spotted Woodpecker shot.
_Goodwin_ L.V., three Crows at noon to W. (N.N.E., 8.) _Gull_ L.V.,
continuous flocks Black Crows, Starlings, Larks, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., to
W. _S. S. Head_ L.V., Larks, 8 A.M. to noon; Rooks, noon to 4 P.M.,
westerly. (N.W., 5.) _East Goodwin_ L.V., good many Larks all day,
accompanied by a continuous flight of Black Crows, E. to W. (N.E., 7.)

October 16th.--_Spurn_, Little Auk. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., flight Larks,
E. to W.; one Greenfinch, twenty Starlings, to W.S.W. _Inner Dowsing_
L.V., thirty Larks, 300 Black Crows, 200 Starlings, fifteen killed, 5
P.M. to 6 P.M., S.E. to N.W. _Llyn Wells_ L.V., Crows in large flocks
all day, S. to N. (N.W., 4; hazy.) _Dudgeon_ L.V., about 300 Black
Crows and 300 Larks, 1.30 P.M. to 5 P.M., S.E. to N.W.; ten Starlings
killed. _Hasbro'_ L.V., Black and Grey Crows, Starlings and Larks,
and a few Chaffinches, E.N.E. to W.S.W. _Cromer_ L.H., several Missel
Thrushes near lighthouse. (S.E., 3.) _Winterton_ L.H., one Lark and
two Starlings, 3.40 A.M., at lantern. _Leman and Ower_ L.V., Larks and
Starlings, all day, to W. (N, 3 and 4.) _Newarp_ L.V., Black Crows and
Larks, all day, E. to N.N.W. (N, 4.) _Yarmouth_, Grey Crows and Rooks
after 3 P.M., large arrivals, chiefly the latter; Long-Tailed Duck,
im.: River Bure. _Cockle_ L.V., Crows and Skylarks, throughout day, E
to W. (N.N.E., 4.) _Corton_ L.V., large flocks Black Crows, sunrise
to sunset, continually to W.; Larks, small birds, and Chaffinches at
intervals to 2.30 P.M., to N.W. _Kentish Knock_ L.V., Crows, thousands
all day, very low, E. to W. Chaffinches, Larks, Linnets, and Sparrows.
(N, 4.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., rush of Crows and Larks to W. (N.N.W., 3.)
_Goodwin_ L.V., Waterhen, 7.30 P.M., also a Woodcock; struck lantern
and killed. (N. 4; C. V.) _Gull_ L.V., continuous flocks Starlings,
Larks, Sparrows, Linnets, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M., to W. (N.N.E., 4.) _S. S.
Head_ L.V., Larks and Rooks, 7 A.M. to 5 P.M., to N.W. _East Goodwin_
L.V., Horned Owl, sunrise, on deck; flew to N.W.

October 17th.--_Coquet_ L.H., Fieldfares, Blackbirds, Starlings, all
day on island. Redcar, Grey Crows, early morn to noon, seen at sea
going W.; Larks all morning. _Whitby_ L.H., Larks, many flock during
morning to N. high. (N.N.W., 2.) One Goldcrest, 11 P.M. _Flambro'_
L.H., Crows in large numbers during day to S.W. (N.N.W., 4.) [A nest
of Grey-Backed Crows was this year reared in cliff near lighthouse.]
_Spurn_, Rough-Legged Buzzard shot. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., thirty Crows
to W. _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., 300 Grey Crows during day (two killed),
from S.E. to N.W. _Llyn Wells_ L.V., large flocks of Crows all day, S.
to N. (N.E., 3.) _Dudgeon_ L.V., About 350 Crows, 3 to 4.50 P.M., S.E.
to N.W. _Hasbro'_ L.V., same as previous day. _Winterton_ L.H., a few
Larks and Starlings, 1 A.M., at lantern. _Newarp_ L.V., Black Crows
and Larks all day, E. to N.N.W. _Yarmouth_, Jackdaw, 10.30 A.M. Little
Gull, North Denes. Grey Shrike shot; flights Grey Crows at intervals
all day. _Cockle_ L.V., very large flocks of Crows throughout day,
E. to W. _Corton_ L.V., large mixed flocks Crows, Starlings, Larks,
Chaffinches all day to W. _Shipwash_ L.V., Rooks, 5.20 P.M., S.E. to
N.W. _Galloper_ L.V., large flocks Crows, Starlings, Larks, and some
Linnets, 9 A.M. to sunset, to W. Many Larks and one Crow, 9 P.M. to
midnight (twenty-six Larks killed). (N., 4.) _Kentish Knock_ L.V.,
Starlings, Larks, Sparrows, and Chaffinches all day to W.S.W.; large
number of Crows, high, at sunset; 100 House Sparrows and small birds.
_Swin Middle_ L.V., Larks at intervals; eighty male Sparrows (_P.
montanus?_) (ten killed). _Gull_ L.V., continuous flocks Starlings,
Larks, Sparrows, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M., to W. _S. S. Head_ L.V., Rooks and
Larks, 6 A.M. to 5 P.M., to N.W. (N.N.W., 3.) _East Goodwin_ L.V.,
Larks during day, E.S.E. to W.N.W.

October 18th.--_Redcar_, large flock Lapwings at sea to S.W.; about
twelve Red-Throated Divers, and twenty Velvet Scoters, along with
Common Scoters. _Whitby_ L.H., several hundreds Grey Crows, also Larks
and Finches, 7 to 9 A.M., to N. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., one hundred
Starlings, two Larks, E. to W. _Llyn Wells_ L.V., Crows and Larks
all day, S. to N. (N.W., 3.) _Dudgeon_ L.V., same as previous day.
_Winterton_ L.H., Starlings, 4 A.M., at lantern. _Cockle_ L.V., Crows
and Skylarks throughout day, E. to W. (N.N.W., 4.) _Corton_ L.V.,
Crows, Blackbirds, Larks and others, continually to W. _Shipwash_
L.V., Larks in flocks during day, S.E. to N.W.; Larks, Starlings, and
Chaffinches round lantern at night. (N. to N.W.) _Galloper_ L.V.,
Larks, 9 A.M. to 3 P.M., to W. (N., 4.) _Kentish Knock_ L.V., Larks,
Linnets, Chaffinches, Sparrows, all day to W.S.W.; a few stray Crows
and Starlings. Forty Sparrows on board. (N.N.W., 4.) _Goodwin_ L.V.,
flocks Larks and Sparrows all day. (N.W., 5.) _Gull_ L.V., continuous
flocks Starlings, Larks, Sparrows, and Linnets, 10 A.M. to 3 P.M., to
N.W. _East Goodwin_ L.V., Sparrows hovering round ship during day.

October 19th.--_Redcar_, two flocks Lapwings at sea to S.W.; one flock
Terns to S.E. _Tetney_, Woodcock (Grainsby Park). _Llyn Wells_ L.V.,
less Crows and Larks all day, S. to N. _Dudgeon_ L.V., same as previous
day. _Cockle_ L.V., Crows and Skylarks, a few stragglers during day.
_Shipwash_ L.V., Larks, 4 P.M., E. to W. (W., moderate.) _Galloper_
L.V., flocks Crows all day to N.W. (N.E., 3.) _Gull_ L.V., continuous
flocks Starlings. Larks, Sparrows, Linnets, and Green Linnets all day
to N.W. _Varne_ L.V., about 200 Larks, 9 A.M., S.S.E. to W. (N.N.W, 4.)

October 20th.--_Tetney_, Meadow Pipits, very abundant; Greenshank, one.
_Winterton_ L.H., one Chaffinch, 11.30 P.M., at lantern. _Yarmouth_,
Short-Eared Owl. Crows, numerous arrival all day. Common Tern. _Cockle_
L.V., Crows and Skylarks, a few stragglers during day. Very large flock
Stints, 11 A.M., E. to W. (N.N.E., 4.) _Corton_ L.V., Larks, Starlings,
Titlarks, to W. and W.N.W. _Shipwash_ L.V., two Stormy Petrels, 7.30
P.M., round lantern. _Galloper_ L.V., Crows, Starlings, and Larks, 8
A.M. to 4 P.M., to W. (W.N.W., 3.) _Kentish Knock_ L.V., four Sparrows
and several Larks to S.W. _Swin Middle_ L.V., Common Sparrows; a few
Larks to W. (N.E., 3.) _Gull_ L.V., continuous flocks Starlings, Larks,
Linnets, Sparrows, to N.W. all day. (N.W., 3.)

October 21st.--_Coquet_ L.H., One Woodcock, 10.30 A.M., shot. _Outer
Dowsing_ L.V., 200 Starlings, 11.30 A.M., S.E. to N.W.; flight Black
Crows to W.N.W. (N.E. and N., 4.) _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., 100 Starlings,
10 A.M., S.E. to N.W. (N., 4.) _Hasbro'_ L.V., very large flocks Black
and Grey Crows, Larks, and Starlings, also three Redwings and several
"Flycatchers" to W.N.W. _Cromer_ L.H., Buzzard at daylight. _Yarmouth_,
Grey Shrike, Breydon marshes. _Corton_ L.V., large flocks Starlings,
sunrise to sunset, to W.; also Larks, Chaffinches, and other small
birds, and mixed flocks of Crows. _Languard_ L.H., one Blackbird and
Common Wren, 8.30 A.M. (N., 3.) _Shipwash_ L.V., Rooks, Starlings,
and Larks in flocks all day, E. to W. (E.N.E., moderate.) _Kentish
Knock_ L.V., Crows, Larks, Chaffinches, and Sparrows to N, and some
to S.W. (N.N.E., 4.) _Gull_ L.V., Crows, Larks, Linnets, Sparrows,
continuously, 9 A.M. to noon, to N.W.; some Sparrows on deck. Very
large Crane at 4.20 P.M. to N.N.W. _East Goodwin_ L.V., large flock
Larks, sunset, E. to W. _Varne_ L.V., 100 Crows, 9 A.M., S.E. to N.W.;
sixty Sparrows, noon, E. to N.W. (N. by E., 4.)

October 22d.--_Farn_ L.H., Skylarks and Thrush at daylight; one
Woodcock. (W., 4.) _Coquet_ L.H., Horned Owl, 3 P.M., shot. _Tees_
L.V., large flocks Larks to N.W. from S.E. _Whitby_ L.H., a great
number Starlings all night round lantern; one Lark killed. (W.N.W., 4.)
_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., flight Larks, thirty Starlings, one Black Swan,
one Crow, to S.W. _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., Larks, forty Grey Crows, twelve
Rooks, E. to W. _Dudgeon_ L.V., Black Crows, Grey Crows, and Larks all
day, S.E. to N.W. (N.W., 3, 4.) _Hasbro'_ L.V., Black and Grey Crows,
Starlings, and Larks. _Yarmouth_, two Purple Sandpipers shot on coast.
(N.W.) _Cockle_ L.V., thousands Larks, continuous during day, E. to
W.; Black and Grey Crows, the same; sixty Stints at 10 A.M., E. to W.
_Corton_ L.V., Blackbirds and Larks, sunrise to sunset, continually to
W.; also Titlarks, Starlings, Crows, and other small birds. _Shipwash_
L.V., Rooks, Starlings, Larks, in afternoon, S.E. to N.W. (S.W.)
_Galloper_ L.V., Rooks, Starlings, Larks, 4 P.M. to 5 A.M. (W.S.W., 4.)
_Kentish Knock_ L.V., Crows, Starlings, Linnets, Larks, and Sparrows
to N.W.; also Crows, Starlings, and Linnets to S.W. _Goodwin_ L.V., a
few Larks, noon. (N.N.W., 4.) _Gull_ L.V., several flocks Sparrows all
the afternoon; several on deck. _East Goodwin_ L.V., five Geese, flock
Crows, several flocks Larks, N.E. to W.S.W. Large flocks Wild Ducks,
continuous from noon to 4 P.M., to S.W.

October 23d.--_Farn_ L.H., three Snow Bunting, two Grey Crows, to W.
(W., 5.) _Flambro'_ L.H., Larks and other small birds during day to
W.S.W. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., one Black Crow, two Larks, to W. _Hasbro'_
L.V., as on previous day, and great numbers during night of Larks,
fifty killed. _Cockle_ L.V., a few straggling Crows, E. to W. (W.S.W.,
4.) _Corton_ L.V., Thrushes, large flocks, 7 A.M. to 4.50 P.M., at
intervals, to W.; also mixed Crows, Starlings, and Larks, 2 P.M. to
4 P.M. _Shipwash_ L.V., great many flocks Rooks, Starlings, Larks,
and Sparrows, 9 A.M. to noon, S.E. to N.W. _Galloper_ L.V., Crows
and Larks, sunrise to noon, to W.S.W. _Kentish Knock_ L.V., Crows,
Starlings, Larks, and some Sparrows, S.W. till noon. _Swin Middle_
L.V., two flocks Starlings to W.; many Ducks. _Goodwin_ L.V., large
flock Crows, E. to W., at 10 A.M. _Gull_ L.V., Crows, Starlings, Larks,
and Linnets, 8 A.M. to 3 P.M., to N.W. (W., 3.)

October 24th.--_Tees_ L.V., large flock Snow Buntings to S.; one
Thrush to N.W. (N.N.E., snow.) _Redcar_, several Short-Eared Owls,
many Woodcocks, Larks, and about forty Chaffinch; also on 25th. (N.
gale, snow and rain.) _Tetney_, Long-tailed Duck, two shot; Water Rail,
Whimbrel. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., twelve Larks, eight Starlings, two
Crows, to W.S.W. _Cromer_ L.H., Lapwings all day, E. to W. (W.N.W., 3.)
_Cockle_ L.V., small flocks of Crows to N.W. (N, 7.) _Shipwash_ L.V.,
Crows, Larks, and Starlings all day, E. to W. (N.N.E. gale, snow.)
_Galloper_ L.V., Larks, small flocks all day to W.

October 25th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Blackbirds and Thrush. (N.N.E., 4.)
_Tees_ L.V., Bullfinch, came on board. (N., light.) _Tetney_, Snipe,
second flight. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., forty Black Crows, two Larks, one
Linnet, 3 P.M. to 4.30 P.M., westward. _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., seventy
Black Crows during day; fifty Larks, 5 P.M. (E. to W.N.W.) _Dudgeon_
L.V., Crows, Starlings, and Larks, in scattered condition during
day, S.E. to N.W. _Hasbro'_ L.V., thousands of Black Crows, and Grey
Crows, and Larks all day to W. _Yarmouth_, Grey Crows and Larks all
day to S.W. _Cockle_ L.V., small flocks Crows to N.W. (N. by E., 7.)
_Corton_ L.V., Crows, Larks, Starlings, and small birds continually to
W. _Shipwash_ L.V., the same as on 24th, to sunset, all travelling E.
to W. _Galloper_ L.V., very large flocks Crows and Larks all day to W.
(N.N.E., 6.) _Kentish Knock_ L.V., Crows in hundreds all day to N.N.W.;
one Cock Blackbird to S.W.; and several hundreds of Larks. (N., 7;
rain.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., Larks, small flocks, twenty to thirty, 9 to
10.30 A.M., to N.W.; a large flock Starlings; Larks again from 12.20 to
3.30 P.M. _Goodwin_ L.V., Larks about all day. (N.; 8.) _Gull_ L.V.,
flocks Larks and Sparrows, 8 A.M. to 4 P.M., to N.W. (N., 6.) _East
Goodwin_ L.V., flocks Larks during day, E. to W. (N., 6.)

October 26th.--_Farn_ L.H., Woodcock, 10 A.M.; another 5 P.M. (S.W.,
3); flushed on island. _Coquet_ L.H., four Woodcocks; Fieldfares,
all day. _Tees_ L.V., large flocks Starlings, Larks, Greenfinches to
N.W.; three Chaffinches on board. _Tetney_, a few Fieldfares and some
Redwings; scores of Blackbirds. (S., light.) _Outer Dowsing_ L.V.,
many Larks and Crows, 10 A.M. to 4.30 P.M., westward; one Jackdaw.
_Inner Dowsing_ L.V., 150 Black Crows, 100 Skylarks, during day; E.N.E.
to W.S.W. _Llyn Wells_ L.V., large flocks Crows and Larks all day,
S.E. to N.W. (S.W., 3.) _Dudgeon_ L.V., Black and Carrion Crows, six
Jackdaws, Starlings, and Larks during day, S.E. to N.W. _Hasbro'_ L.V.,
Starlings, also some Hen Blackbirds (three Blackbirds, sixty Larks, and
twenty Starlings killed at lantern at 4 A.M.). _Cromer_ L.H., Curlew, 1
A.M., at light. _Northrepps_, Peregrine and Buzzard. _Leman and Ower_
L.V., Greenfinch (wing sent). _Yarmouth_, Rooks in flocks all day,
S.W.; Long-Tailed Duck. _Cockle_ L.V., small flocks Crows during day
to W. _Shipwash_ L.V., several flocks as on 25th, till sunset, E. to
W. _Kentish Knock_ L.V. Crows, Larks, and Sparrows all day to S.W.
(W.S.W, 2.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., Crows, Larks, and Black Ducks all day
to W. _Goodwin_ L.V., Crows and Larks all day; some struck at night.
(N, 4.) _Varne_ L.V., 100 Larks, 4.30 P.M., E. to N.W.

October 27th.--_Farn_ L.H., small Grebe, 3 P.M., swimming near
island. _Tees_ L.V., numbers of Grey Crows, large flock Widgeon, two
Chaffinches, three Titlarks. (S.W, strong.) _Spurn_, some Siskins;
three Purple Sandpipers shot. _Tetney_, Common Snipe, and Jacksnipe.
(S., strong.) _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., 200 Black and Grey Crows; 150 Larks
during day, E. to W. (S.W., 5.) _Llyn Wells_ L.V., Lapwings, large
flock, 9 A.M., E.S.E. to W.N.W. Larks and Crows during day, E. to N.W.
_Yarmouth_, Rooks, numerous arrival all day. Purple Sandpiper (im. ♂)
shot. _Cockle_ L.V., large and continuous flock of Crows; Larks and
Starlings during day to W. _Corton_ L.V., Larks and Starlings, noon,
to S.W. _Languard_ L.H., five Grey-Backed Crows, 6 A.M. _Shipwash_
L.V., small flocks Rooks, Starlings, and Larks all day, S.E. to N.W.
_Swin Middle_ L.V., Crows, Starlings, Larks, morn to noon, E. to W. Two
Chaffinches. _Goodwin_ L.V., a few Larks about deck. _East Goodwin_
L.V., Crows, 9 to 11 am., E. to W. (S.W., 5.)

October 28th.--_Farn_ L.H., a few Blackbirds, Thrush, and Redwing. (W,
4.) _Redcar_, great flocks Lapwing to W.; also 29th and 31st. _Spurn_,
Jacksnipe, several; Snow Buntings. _Tetney_, Golden Plover, large
flock. _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., two dozen Starlings caught during night.
_Cromer_ L.H., flocks Gannet all day, S.E. to N.W. (W., 2.) _Cockle_
L.V., fifty Black Crows, one Lark, three Linnets, 9.30 A.M., to N.W.
One Wren on board. _Corton_ L.V., Larks, 10 A.M. to sunset, flying W.
by N. _Galloper_ L.V., Crows and Starlings during day to W. (S.W, 5.)

October 29th.--_Llyn Wells_ L.V., small flocks Crows and Larks during
day, E.S.E. to W.N.W. (S.W.) _Yarmouth_, Knot and Long-Tailed Duck.
_Cockle_ L.V. Crows, two flocks, 100 in flock, 2 and 3 P.M., to N.W.
_Corton_ L.V. Black Crows, 9 A.M. to 4 P.M., to W. _Languard_ L.H.,
large flock of Golden Plover, 4 P.M., high to S.W. (N.N.W., 4.)
_Goodwin_ L.V., large flock Crows at noon, E. to W.

October 30th.--_Tees_ L.V., large flocks Larks and Grey Linnets;
three Titlarks came on board. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., 200 Larks and one
Starling. _Inner Dowsing_ L.V., thirty Grey Crows, E.N.E. to W.S.W.
(W., 4.) _Cromer_ L.H., several Golden Plover, 6.30 to 8 P.M., round
light. (S., 3; thick mist.) _Languard_ L.H., seventeen Wood Pigeons,
4.25 P.M., low to N.E. (W., 5; B. C. M.)

October 31st.--_Farn_ L.H., one Golden-Crested Wren, 8 A.M. Blackbird,
Thrushes, Titlarks, all day about island. Small flocks of Thrushes and
Fieldfares in forenoon to W. One Woodcock, 5 P.M., flushed on island.
_Tees_ L.V., great many Grey Crows to N.W. Small birds, Larks, Linnets,
and Starlings; five Titlarks and two Bullfinches came on board.
_Redcar_, four Redwings and a few Grey Crows. (W., light.) _Inner
Dowsing_ L.V., 100 Black Crows, fifty Larks, westerly. (W., 4.) _Llyn
Wells_ L.V., Crows, large flock, 7 to 9 A.M., S.S.E. to W.N.W. (W.S.W.,
5.) Four Starlings struck lantern. _Cockle_ L.V., five Black Crows,
5.30 A.M., to W. _Shipwash_ L.V., four flocks Black Crows, E. to W.
(W.S.W., moderate.) _Goodwin_ L.V., a few Larks all day, and striking
lantern at night.


NOVEMBER.

November 1st.--_Coquet_ L.H., Fieldfares, large flock; one Snow
Bunting; twelve Grey Crows. Large flock of "Mountain" Sparrows;
remained a week. (S.S.E., 9.) _Tees_ L.V., large flocks Starlings to
S. Snow Buntings; great many Grey Crows to N.W. _Spurn_ L.H., several
Golden-Crested Wrens, 8 A.M. (S.S.E., 7.) _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., 300
Crows, large flight Larks, three Chaffinches, two Sparrows (one
caught). _Llyn Wells_ L.V., Larks, several flocks, sunrise to 10 A.M.,
S. to N.W. _Dudgeon_ L.V., immense numbers of Crows, noon to 5 P.M.,
E.S.E. to W.N.W. Several small flocks Larks; fifteen Lapwings. (S.,
6.) _Hasbro'_ L.V., continuous flocks Black and Grey Crows and Larks,
10 A.M. to 4 P.M., very low, E. to W., and apparently much fatigued.
(S., 7.) _Yarmouth_, Redshank; Crows, 9.30 A.M., a few in from sea.
And great numbers of Crows, Rooks, and Larks all day. (S.W., gale.)
_Cockle_ L.V., continuous Crows, Starlings, Larks, Lapwings all day
to N.W. (S., 7.) _Corton_ L.V., Larks and Crows, 10 A.M. to noon, to
W.N.W. _Shipwash_ L.V., large flocks Crows, Larks, and Chaffinches all
day, E.N.E. to W.S.W. _Galloper_ L.V., Crows, large flocks, 9 A.M. to
W. _Swin Middle_ L.V., 15 Black Crows to W. _Goodwin_ L.V., flock
Larks, 8 A.M. to W. (E.S.E., 6.) _East Goodwin_ L.V., 25 Black Crows,
10.30 A.M., E.N.E. to W.

November 2d.--_Farn_ L.H., Blackbirds, Fieldfares, Thrushes, Redwings,
two Ring Ouzels, and several Tree Sparrows on island; also one Woodcock
and one Wood Pigeon. (S., 8.) Two large flocks of Golden Plover, flying
W. Flocks of Fieldfares, Thrushes, Redwings, Skylarks, Snow Buntings,
and Starlings, to W., from 10 A.M. to 1.30 P.M. Three Common Wren in
garden. _Coquet_ L.H., two "Horned" Owls. _Tees_ L.V., large flocks
Widgeon, Grey Ducks, and Dunlin, two Thrushes, Titlarks, and two
Bullfinches; the latter came on board. (Strong S.W.) _Whitby_ L.H.,
flocks Fieldfare during morning, high, to S. (S., 3.) _Spurn_ L.H.,
many small birds, Crows, 9 A.M. (S.S.E., 5.) _Tetney_, Teal, many,
twenty-two in one flock. _Outer Dowsing_ L.V., one Blackbird, 7 A.M.,
200 Larks, 3 P.M., 300 Crows, 3.30 P.M., to W. _Llyn Wells_ L.V., Knot,
very large flock, 9 A.M., N. to S. _Dudgeon_ L.V., 150 Crows, noon to
3 P.M., E.S.E. to W.N.W, Fifty Mountain Sparrows, several on deck.
_Hasbro'_ L.V., continuous Black and Grey Crows, 10 A.M. to sunset,
E. to W., low. (S., 4.) _Yarmouth_, Purple Sandpiper, ad. ♂, Breydon.
Great Spotted Woodpecker, ad. ♂. _Cockle_ L.V., great flocks Crows,
Lapwings, and Larks, to W., throughout day. _Corton_ L.V., Larks and
Crows, 5 A.M., round lantern, and passed close to ship, flying W.,
from 8 A.M. to 4 P.M. _Shipwash_ L.V., Crows, Larks, and Chaffinches
all day, S.E. to N.W. (Fresh, S.S.W.) _Swin Middle_ L.V., Larks, 20
to 30 and single, 8 A.M. to noon, to W. (S.S.W., 4.) Two large flocks
Sanderling, to E., at noon. _Goodwin_ L.V., flock Larks, 9.30 A.M.;
also striking lantern at night. East _Goodwin_ L.V., two flocks Larks,
10 to 11 A.M., E. to W. (S.W., 6.) _Varne_ L.V., 100 Starlings, 4 P.M.,
S.E. to N.W. _Hanois_ L.H., a few Swallows passing, 10 A.M. (W.N.W., 4;
C., showery.)

November 3d.--_Tees_ L.V., Grey Crows to N.W.; one Woodcock. _Whitby_
L.H., Wrens, Snow Buntings, Fieldfares, 10 A.M., about premises; also
Linnets, Finches, and other small birds, flying high, to S. (S.S.W.,
3.) _Flambro'_ L.H., Larks and Crows, 7.30 A.M. to 10.40 A.M., to
S. _Spurn_ L.H., Grey Crows and Brambling, 8 A.M. (S., 4.) _Llyn
Wells_ L.V., Larks, several round ship, noon to 3 P.M. _Cromer_ L.H.,
few Larks and Starlings, midnight to 3 A.M. (S. to S.W., 5; misty.)
_Northrepps_, Buzzard, passing over. _Yarmouth_, Swallow, at Breydon,
five or six. A few Crows, 10.30 A.M., from sea. _Cockle_ L.V., three
Crows, one Starling, and a Lark, 9.30 A.M., to W. _Languard_ L.H., two
Common Wrens, 11.5 A.M. _Goodwin_ L.V., Crows and Starlings at noon to
W. (S.W., 8; O. R.)

November 4th.--_Farn_ L.H., one Long-Tailed Duck, shot. _Redcar_, a
few Blackbirds, Chaffinches, and six Robins; some at sea, others at
breakwater. (W.) _Spurn_ L.H., Tree Sparrow, killed, 3 A.M. (S., 4.)
Wing sent. _Cromer_ L.H., Curlew and Golden Plover, 6 to 8 P.M., round
lantern; also on 5th and 6th. _Yarmouth_, Swallow, five, Jackdaw, 8.30
A.M., fifteen from sea; Goldcrest. _Cockle_ L.V., a few straggling
Crows to W. during day. _Galloper_ L.V., large flocks Crows and
Starlings all day to S.W. _Swin Middle_ L.V., a few Larks and Crows.
_Goodwin_ L.V., Crows and Starlings to W. at 2 P.M. (S.W., 7.)

November 5th.--_Whitby_ L.H., forty-two Grey Geese, high to S.; eight
Snow Buntings, in garden. (W., 4.) _Llyn Wells_ L.V., Larks and
Starlings during day, S.S.E. to N.W. _Yarmouth_, Ring Ouzel, im. ♂;
Swallows and Martin, five at 4 P.M.; two Shore Larks. _Cockle_ L.V.,
one Starling to W. _Gull_ L.V., Crows, 7 A.M. to noon, to N.W. (W., 3.)

November 6th.--_Coquet_ L.H., flock of Golden-Crested Wrens. (S.E., 5.)
_Spurn_ L.H., Chaffinches and Redbreasts, 9 A.M. (S.S.W., 3.) _Llyn
Wells_ L.V., six Linnets; four Starlings, killed against lantern.
_Hasbro'_ L.V., forty to fifty Black Crows, 3.30 P.M., to W. (S., 2.)
_Yarmouth_, Crows, 4 P.M., from sea inland; Larks, Redwings, 7 P.M.,
over town; ten House Martins (Keswick Hall). _Cockle_ L.V., about 1000
Larks during day to S.W. _Gull_ L.V., Crows, 7 A.M. to 4 P.M., to N.W.
(S.W., 3.)

November 7th.--_Outer Dowsing_ L.V., Black Duck, large flight to S.W.;
twenty Larks to W.S.W. _Llyn Wells_ L.V., Crows during day, S.E. to
W.N.W.; two Larks killed. _Hasbro'_ L.V., Skylarks, large flock at 6.30
A.M., to W.; two Great Tits (wings sent), 3 P.M. _Yarmouth_, Redshank,
Golden and Grey Plover, many over town after dark; also Dunlin all
evening. (S.E.) _Cockle_ L.V., a few Larks during day to S.W.; two
"Oxeyes" on board. _Shipwash_ L.V., two flocks Lapwings, N.E. to S.W.;
thirty Starlings, E. to W. _Swin Middle_ L.V., six male Sparrows, a few
Larks and Starlings. _Goodwin_ L.V., six Sparrows about deck all day.
_Gull_ L.V., six Sparrows about deck.

November 8th.--_Farn_ L.H., three Blackbirds, two Redbreasts, and
several Hedge Sparrows about island. _Tees_ L.V., one Woodcock.
(E, fresh.) _Redcar_, several Woodcock. (N.E., gale.) _Flambro'_
L.H., Blackbirds and Redwings, noon, to W.S.W. (E. by S., 6.) One
"Stormcock," 10.50 P.M., killed. _Yarmouth_, Common Tern, im. shot at
Breydon; Golden and Grey Plover, 8 P.M., numbers heard over the town;
also Ringed Plover, Dunlin, and Curlew. Water Rail taken on smack at
sea about this date. _Languard_ L.H., Woodcock, 4.30 P.M., rested a few
minutes and went E.S.E. (E., 4.) _Gull_ L.V., one Sparrow at daylight,
on deck.

November 9th.--_Farn_ L.H., Glaucous Gull (E., 5) flying N. _Tees_
L.V., Woodcock. _Redcar_, Woodcock, Short-Eared Owl, several Grey
Crows. _Spurn_ L.H., several Blackbirds and Starlings. _Outer Dowsing_
L.V., 200 Black Ducks to S.W.; forty Larks to W. (E.N.E., 4.)
_Languard_ L.H., two Robins, one Snow Bunting, 4.20 P.M., in garden.
_East Goodwin_ L.V., large flock Larks, 9 A.M., E. to W.; Ducks, 2 to 4
P.M., E. to W.

November 10th.--_Coquet_ L.H., Woodcock struck lantern and killed, 3
A.M. (E., 4.) _Tees_ L.V., Woodcock; one "Large-Eared" Grebe. _Tetney_,
Golden Plover, a great many; Lapwings, thousands; Woodcock. _Inner
Dowsing_ L.V., one Hen Brambling, 3 P.M., caught; one Blackcap, 6 P.M.,
caught. (E.N.E., 3.) _Llyn Wells_ L.V., Larks during day. _Winterton_
L.H., several Chaffinch at lantern, 6 A.M. _Yarmouth_, Goldcrests
and Great Tits in Priory Gardens. _Swin Middle_ L.V., Woodcock found
dead on lantern top, at sunrise. (E.S.E., 4.) Stormy Petrel and Hen
Blackbird caught on deck. _East Goodwin_ L.V., Wild Ducks continuous
through day, E.N.E. to W.

November 11th.--_Redcar_, one Woodcock. (N.E., moderate.) _Tetney_,
Snow Bunting, two on old wreck, North Cotes sands. _Inner Dowsing_
L.V., one Stormy Petrel, 9 P.M., caught. (E.N.E., 3.) _Winterton_ L.H.,
Larks and Starlings, 9.40 P.M. (N.E. by E., 5.) _Yarmouth_, Goosander
in market; Blackcap, ♂, shot. _East Goodwin_ L.V., Wild Ducks as on
10th, E. to W. _Hanois_ L.H., flight Starlings, 9 A.M. (E., 3); also a
flight of Plover at 11 A.M.; both flights to E.

November 12th.--_Farn_ L.H., several Blackbirds, Thrushes, and
Starlings about island. (N.W., 3.) One Goldcrest in garden. _Cromer_
L.H., Common Wren, 2 A.M., at lantern. (W., 4.) _Yarmouth_, Great Grey
Shrike, ♂, shot.

November 13th.--_Farn_ L.H., small flock Siskins on island. (N., 3.)
_Tees_ L.V., one Shearwater; one Thrush, 10 A.M., came on board.
(W.N.W., hazy.) _Winterton_ L.H., Curlews to W., 1.20 A.M. _Yarmouth_,
three Shorelarks caught in nets; "nice lot of Bearded Tits are said to
have come in from a great height, and from the E." _Galloper_ L.V.,
large flocks Curlews, Starlings, and Larks, all night, to W.

November 14th.--_Farn_ L.H., flock of Long-Tailed Ducks, 11 A.M., to
N. _Tees_ L.V., two Woodcocks, one Kingfisher. (N.N.E., rain.) Shot
at South Gar Light. _Cromer_ L.H., five Willow Wren, at daylight
(Goldcrests?). _Yarmouth_, Swan, two, Breydon. _Swin Middle_ L.V.,
Stormy Petrel, on board. Thrush, 3.30 A.M. _Goodwin_ L.V., flocks
Larks, at noon, to W. (E. by N, 6; C. V., rain.)

November 15th.--_Farn_ L.H., Blackbirds and Thrushes, flying about.
(W.N.W., 3.) _Flambro'_, White Kittiwake, shot by Thomas Leng. _East
Goodwin_ L.V., two flocks Black Crows, E. to W. _Hanois_ L.H.,
Blackbirds and Thrushes, 2 to 3.30 A.M., round lantern. (E., 4; O. M.)

November 16th.--_Redcar_, about 500 Geese seen at sea going S.E. Flock
of about 500 Lapwings to S.W.; great many Red-Throated Divers to S.E.
(N.W., moderate.) _Tetney_, Fieldfares, large flocks. (S., hard frost.)
_Inner Dowsing_ L.V., twelve Larks and one Sparrow, 9 A.M., flying low,
E. to W. (N.W. by W., 3.) _Hanois_ L.H., flight Chaffinches, mostly
males, at 11 A.M. (E.S.E., 4.)

November 17th.--_Tetney_, Goosander, two shot. _Cromer_ L.H., Tufted
Duck (wing sent), 5 A.M., killed on lantern. (S., 5.) _Swin Middle_
L.V., many Gulls and Ducks, over sand. _Hanois_ L.H., flight, 17th to
18th, Blackbirds and Thrushes, flying round lantern at 10 P.M., some
striking; many Lapwings at 1 A.M., none striking. Large flock Golden
Plover and Yellow Wagtails at 1.30 A.M., one Yellow Wagtail killed.
(S.E., 3; O. M.)

November 18th.--_Farn_ L.H., Curlew Sandpiper shot. _Hasbro'_ L.V.,
Jacksnipe (wing sent), 3 A.M., killed. _Yarmouth_, Redshank (Breydon);
four seen. _Swin Middle_ L.V., a few Larks, 2 to 6 A.M.; six killed.
(W.N.W., 2; O. M.) _Goodwin_ L.V., a few larks at night, (N.W., 4.) _S.
S. Head_ L.V., Larks and Linnets, 9 A.M. to 4 P.M., to N.W.

November 19th.--_Hasbro'_ L.V., Coot, 3 A.M., dead on deck. _Cromer_
L.H., Starlings, all night. (W., 4.) _Yarmouth_, Gadwall, seven
(probably Norfolk bred). _Languard_ L.H., large flock Golden Plover at
noon, high, to N.E. _S. S. Head_ L.V., twenty Rooks, 9 A.M., to N.W.

November 20th.--_Galloper_ L.V., Starlings and Larks, 6 P.M. to
midnight. (Calm, O. M.) _S. S. Head_ L.V., flocks Larks, noon, to
W.N.W. _Hanois_ L.H., Gannets, old and young; daily fishing.

November 21st.--_S. S. Head_ L.V., flocks of Larks and Mountain
Sparrows, 9 A.M., to W.N.W. (N. by E., 2; fog.) _Varne_ L.V., ten
Crows, 3.15 P.M., S.E. to N. (K, 2.)

November 22d.--_Farn_ L.H., twelve Fieldfares and one Blackbird, on
island. (E., 4.)

November 24th.--_Redcar_, about a dozen Wood Pigeons to S.W. at 11
A.M., and two at noon. _Tetney_, Great Spotted Woodpecker.

November 25th.--_Cromer_ L.H., flocks Crows all day, mostly E. to W.
_S. S. Head_ L.V., Rooks and Sparrows, 9 A.M., to N.W. (W.S.W., 4.)
_Hanois_ L.H., Heron to E., 11 A.M.; [and on 27th, several to S.E.,
flying very high, at 10 A.M. (W.N.W., 4.)]


DECEMBER

December 1st.--_Tetney_, Grey Phalarope shot; Snipe, "many heard
passing over to S. at dusk, when in a duck-punt off Tetney Haven."

December 2d.--_Redcar_, great many Snow Buntings to W.N.W.

December 3d.--_Tees_ L.V., large flock Larks to N.W. Four Sparrows came
on board. _Swin Middle_ L.V., some Larks on 2d and 3d, to N.W.

December 4th.--_Cromer_ L.H., Buzzard, 11.30 A.M., N.E. to S.W.; six
Blue Titmouse.

December 6th.--_Tetney_, Snow Bunting, one at low-water mark, many
coming in at dusk. (S., strong, rain.)

December 7th.--_Coquet_ L.H., Fieldfares all day. (S.S.E., 5.) _Tees_
L.V., flock Snow Buntings, to S. _Redcar_, one Glaucous Gull seen,
immature.

December 9th.--_Tees_ L.V., two Sparrow Hawks to N.W. Redcar, about one
hundred Grey Geese, high to S. (W.N.W., light.) _Whitby_ L.H., large
flock Geese, 8 P.M., round light. (N.W., 6.)

December 10th.--_Whitby_ L.H., small flocks Fieldfares and Thrushes, 8
A.M., went S.

December 12th.--_Farn_ L.H., great many Lapwings and Plover, Purple
Sandpipers, some Redshanks, and Turnstones about island. _Outer
Dowsing_ L.V., fifty Black Crows, 4.10 P.M., N.W. to S.E.

December 13th.--_Farn_ L.H., three Blackbirds, several Thrush, one
Snipe, on island. (S.S.W., 4.) _Winterton_ L.H., Starlings, 6 A.M., at
lantern. (S.S.W., 6.)

December 14th.--_Coquet_ L.H., Starlings and Larks all day. (W.S.W.,
5.) _Redcar_, one Woodcock, picked up dead on shore.

December 17th.--_Farn_ L.H., flocks of Starlings all day to W. (W.N.W.,
7.) _Tetney_, Goldfinch, one. (Have been very common in North-East
Lincolnshire in December, also January 1888); a few Brambling.

December 21st.--_Languard_ L.H., two Kentish Plover, 8 A.M., went W.
(N, 4.)

December 22d.--_Farn_ L.H., several Hedge Sparrows and one Wren on
island.

December 23d.--_Whitby_ L.H., great many Grey Crows, Fieldfares,
Linnets, Finches, and Sparrows, 10.30 A.M., seen near station. (N.N.E.,
5.) _Cromer_ L.H., several flocks Gannet all day, S.E. to N.W. (N.W.,
5.)

December 24th.--_Languard_ L.H., Stormy Petrel, 4.20 A.M., caught on
lantern. (N.W., 4; O. M. P.)

December 25th.--_Whitby_ L.H., very large Hawk, several days about
cliff.

December 26th.--_Tees_ L.V., Cormorant came on board to-day, and has
come to roost for several days, but disappeared suddenly. _Redcar_, six
Swans, five white and one grey, at sea to W.; eight off Tees mouth.

December 27th.--_Farn_ L.H., one Woodcock (N., 1) shot; Blackbirds and
Thrushes. _Cromer_ L.H., small flocks Fieldfares. (W., 4.)

December 29th.--_Spurn_, a few Short-Eared Owls. _Swin Middle_ L.V.,
22d and 17th, flock "Splendid" Ducks (Sheldrake?). Large quantities of
various Ducks, chiefly Scoters, seen near the vessel in December, also
January 1888. On the 12th the vessel was surrounded with Black Ducks,
as far as could be seen with a telescope.

December 31st.--_Farn_ L.H., small flocks of Long-Tailed Ducks to N.


List of Wings sent from Lighthouses and Light-vessels, East Coast of
England.

       Station.               Date.         Species.
                              1887.

  Spurn L.H.            Oct.   3, 4 A.M.   Wren.
      "                          Nov.   4, 3 A.M.   Tree Sparrow.
  Cromer L.H.            "    18.          Tufted Duck (male)
      "                          Sept. 17, 3 A.M.   Osprey.[4]
  Happisburgh L.V.       "     3.          Arctic Tern.
      "                           "    15.          Whitethroat, two.
      "                          Nov.   7.          Great Tit, two.
      "                           "    18.          Jacksnipe.
  Leman and Ower L.V.   Aug.   5.          Skylark.
      "                          Sept. 26.          Jacksnipe.
      "                          Oct.   7.          Linnet.
      "                           "     8.          Greenfinch.
      "                           "    26.          Greenfinch.[5]
      "                          Nov.  11.          Water-rail.
  Nore L.V.             Oct.  10.          Thrush.
      "                           "     "           Chaffinch.
      "                           "     "           Tree Sparrow.
      "                           "     "           Greenfinch.[6]
  Kentish Knock L.V.     "     9.          Brambling, six.
  Goodwin L.V.          Sept. 20.          Wryneck.
  Hanois L.H., Guernsey Oct.   6.          Pied Wagtail, two.

[Footnote 4: "Shot from flagstaff, as seen when ray of light came round
and illuminated it."]

[Footnote 5: "Great numbers on board in afternoon, and died from
exhaustion. The survivors took off along with some Crows, coming from
E. and going N.W. (4, B. C.)"]

[Footnote 6: Mr Thomas Littlewood says--" These four species on deck at
sunrise too weak to fly."]


Summary and General Remarks.

In January depressions of very considerable size passed by our
north-western and northern shores after the 2d, with very sudden
changes of temperature of an unusual character and great magnitude;
showers of cold rain, sleet, and hail from day to day, and very severe
frosts at night. There are very clear indications in the diary of
Migration, that the atmospheric disturbances were concurrent with a
great rush of birds going south along the coast. Those chiefly noted
being Fieldfares, Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, Larks, Chaffinches,
Linnets, Starlings, and some Crows.

In the latter part of February and throughout March there are
indications of the passage of Crows, Rooks, Daws, Starlings, Larks, and
others to the Continent, also in the opposite direction to the S.E.
Coast of England. Great numbers of Starlings, Thrashes, and Larks were
also observed at the lanterns at night, the particular direction of
their flight being not apparent.

A Blackcap (_Sylvia atricapilla_) is recorded at the Cockle L.V. on
March 31st, after which the first actual indication of the Spring
migration is the occurrence of. Swifts (_Cypselus apus_) at the Spurn
on April 5th, arriving at 6 P.M., and resting on the window sills all
night; on the same day at Great Cotes several male Wheatears were seen.
The Spring migration of the Wheatear (_Saxicola ænanthe_) is last
recorded at the Farn L.H. on the night of May 30th, several round the
lantern; and at the Tees L.V. on June 5th, two to N.W.

Puffins (_Fratercula arctica_) arrived at their breeding quarters on
the Farn Islands on March 30th, a very early date. Continuous flocks
with Wild Ducks were seen at the Outer Dowsing L.V. on April 12th,
going S.S.E.; at the same date a Woodcock was killed at the Swin L.V.
The Swallow (_Hirundo rustica_) is first seen at the Galloper L.V. on
April 11th, going N.W. Many at the Hanois L.H., Guernsey, on the same
day, with Willow Wrens and Whitethroats. At the Shipwash L.V., Swallows
were observed at intervals passing from S.E. to N.W. up to June 4th.

Snow Buntings (_Plectrophanes nivalis_) were last seen at the Spurn on
April 20th. The Cuckoo is first recorded at the Isle of Thanet on April
24th, and the Yellow Wagtail (_Motacilla raii_) on the 25th.

There appears to have been a heavy rush of the smaller summer visitants
on the S.E. coast, from the Isle of Thanet to Hunstanton, at early
morning of the 29th of April. A very strongly pronounced movement was
also observed at Hanois L.H., Guernsey, on May 2d. The weather, in the
first instance, being rainy and unsettled in S.E., and very cold over
England with N.E. winds. On the 30th, thunderstorm in S.W. of France,
with very cold, unsettled, and rainy weather generally in the south.

Various shorebirds and waders were observed passing down the coast
from S. to N., on May 12th and subsequently. A Moorhen (_Gallinula
chloropus_) was killed at the Cockle L.V. on the night of May 21st;
another at the Goodwin L.V. on the night of October 16th.

A Bearded Reedling (_Panurus biarmicus_) was seen at the Languard L.H.
on February 16th at 7.40 A.M.; and from Yarmouth on November 13th is
the note, "nice lot of Bearded Tits, are said to have come in at a
great height, and from the E."

The autumn movement commenced early in July, but did not become very
distinctly pronounced before the beginning of August. One of the
most interesting features of the autumnal migration has been the
simultaneous occurrences of the Pygmy Curlew (_Tringa subarquata_)
and the Little Stint (_Tringa minuta_) on the East Coast, between the
Tees and Yarmouth. The former species is first recorded from Redcar on
August 16th and from the Spurn on August the 23d. The Little Stint in
the same locality on the 25th. Both were present there in very large
numbers on September 2d, with a S.W. gale. The Pygmy Curlew was seen
last on the Norfolk coast on October 8th, and one, Farn Islands, on
November 18th.

The Woodcock is first recorded at Seaton-Carew, Durham, on September
19th, and at Cromer L.H. on September 25th, from 12.30 to 2.30 A.M.
(S.E., 4.) Our observer, Mr Comben, says, "never saw so many Woodcock
at one time before, there seemed to be a constant stream flying round
lantern, none struck." Woodcocks appear to have come in at irregular
intervals between September 30th and November 3d. The greatest number
perhaps on the 9th, 10th, and 11th of October. Throughout September
there was a steady and almost daily increasing migration observed
at East Coast stations, but from the 29th and throughout October to
November 3d, there was an almost continuous night and day rush of
immigrants, the chief of those recorded being Crows, Rooks, Daws,
Starlings, Larks, Chaffinches, Linnets, and Sparrows. In fact, during
this time much the greater proportion of the entries in the schedules
consists of a weary reiteration of these readily distinguished
species. The weather during the period of this great invasion was up
to the 25th of October mainly anticyclonic, cold, quiet, and dry. The
prevailing wind N. and N.-easterly. After the 25th, cyclonic with W.
and S.-westerly winds, wet, rough, and milder. The average temperature
of the month was much colder than the corresponding months in the two
preceding years. It does not appear that the change of weather and of
the wind after the 25th, had any influence on the migratory movements,
birds continuing to pour in with undiminished numbers. Indeed, the
direction and force of the wind appears to have little to do in
controlling these great autumnal rushes, for when the time for crossing
the North Sea has come, birds cross independent of weather. It must be
admitted, however, that the prevailing wind at the time is an important
factor in governing the direction in which migrants travel, and the
angle at which the line of flight will intersect the line of coast. To
changes of temperature either sudden or gradual, rather than the force
and direction of winds, we must probably look for the impelling cause
of these seasonal phenomena.

After the 3d and to the 19th of November, birds continued to arrive,
but in greatly reduced numbers, the throbs and pulsations of the great
inrush becoming daily more feeble and less sustained. After this date
to the end of the year, migration was more or less spasmodic, the
entries in the schedules being chiefly confined to the occurrences of
various birds seen in the vicinity of the stations.

Swans and Grey Geese have been remarkably scarce. Brent Geese
(_Bernicla brenta_) fairly numerous. All accounts agree that it has
been an extraordinary Duck year, large numbers of various species
frequenting all favourable localities along the East Coast. The Common
Scoter (_Œdemia nigra_) has occurred in enormous flocks, also a few
_Œ. fusca_. Considerable numbers of the Long-Tailed Duck (_Harelda
glacialis_) have visited the coast from the Farn Islands to Yarmouth.

Amongst the rarer and more interesting species we may notice the
occurrences of _Tringa temmincki_ (three) at the Spurn, also _Podiceps
nigricollis_ at the same place. _Anthus richardi_ at Tetney. _Cypselus
melba_, _Recurvirostra avocetta_, and _Tringa maculata_ at Yarmouth,
also _Pandion haliaëtus_ at the Cromer lighthouse.

It is unfortunate that we do not know more about those smaller night
wanderers which are usually entered in our schedules under the general
name "Flycatchers" or "various small birds." The wings occasionally
forwarded are always very interesting, and, what is most important,
give definite and reliable results. As a rule all these small
insect-eating species get lumped together as "Flycatchers," a result
not to be wondered at considering the circumstances under which they
are seen, helplessly fluttering against the lanterns, or dancing like
gnats in the yellow glare. Those "hundreds of Flycatchers," from
midnight to 4 P.M., seen at the Swin L.V. on the night of April 29th,
no doubt represented many species of our small summer visitors, and the
Spotted Flycatcher (_Muscicapa grisola_) was not seen in the Isle of
Thanet before May 4th.




WEST COAST OF SCOTLAND.


In the same way as we treated of the East Coast returns, we treat the
West Coast. The contents of one or two schedules written across the
columns have been omitted for reasons before stated, more especially as
none of these are of great importance.

LIST OF STATIONS.

The names of the Reporters are given under "Diary from the Stations."

  In 1887,    Returns
  Schedules  in 9 years,  In      List of Stations.
  filled in.  including  1887.
                1887.                                  Values.  Feet.

                                  Sutherland.

      0          4            81. Cape Wrath,             III.    400
      0          4            82. Rhu Stoir,               II.    195

                                 Outer Hebrides.

      3          8         *  83. Butt of Lewis,            I.    170
      0          3            84. Stornoway (2 Lights),  { II. }   56
                                                         {  I. }
      0          3            85. Island Ghlais,            I.    130
      8          8         *  86. Monach Islands,        {  I.    150
      0          2            87. Ushenish, N. Uist,       VI.    176
      2          5            88. Barra Head,              II.    683
      1          4         *  89. Rona, Skye,              IV.    222
      3          8         *  90. Kyleakin, W. Ross,       IV.     53
      0          2            91. Isle Ornsay,              I.     58
      0          2            92. Ardnamurchan,             I.
      4          9         *  93. Skerryvore and Hynish
                                    Signal Tower, Tiree,   II.    150
      4          9         *  94. Dhuheartach,              I.    146
      0          6            95. Sound of Mull,            V.     55
      0          0            96. Corran Ferry,            IV.     38
      0          4            97. Lismore, Oban,            I.    103
      0          2            98. Fladda, Easdale,         VI.     42
      0          4            99. Rhuvaal,                 IV.    147
      0          7           100. M'Arthur's Head,         IV.    128
      3          9         * 101. Skervuile,               II.     73
      9          9         * 102. Rhinns of Islay,         IV.    159
      8          4         * 103. Lochindaul,              IV.     50
      0          0           104. Mull of Cantyre,         VI.    297
      0          0           105. Sanda,
      0          0           106. Devaar,                  II.    120
      0          0           107. Pladda, Arran,           II.    130
      1          6         * 108. Lamlash, Arran,          IV.     46
      0          4         * 109. Turnberry, Ayrshire,     IV.     96
      3          1           109B. Ailsa Craig, 1885
      1          8         * 110. Corsewall,               IV.    112
      0          0           111. Loch Ryan,                I.     46
      0          7         * 112. Portpatrick,              I.     37
      1          8         * 113. Mull of Galloway,        II.    325
      4          5         * 114. Little Ross,             IV.    176


_Diary from the Stations._

_Butt of Lewis._--Mr Robert Agnew, son of Mr Joseph Agnew (now at
Monach Isles), sends three well-filled schedules, one being devoted, as
requested, to Solan Geese after the date of September 4th.

_Monach Isles._--Mr Joseph Agnew (late of Isle of May) sends eight
schedules, one for Solan Geese. Mr Agnew says, "The Merganser is by
far the most abundant of the ducks.... All Curlews come from the N.
East, not one coming from the south (August). After coming so far,
they turn inland; and, I have no doubt, the old are leading the young
to previously well-known feeding grounds." "Geese seen flying S.E., as
if from St Kilda" (August 17th). Statement that "one pair, at least,
of Turnstones bred at Monach this year requires confirmation" (20th
August). "Terns flying S.W., remarked as unusual" (30th). "I feel the
place lonely to-day without the Terns. They must have _seen_ their
friends passing yesterday, and have gone off in pursuit" (31st August).
"Sandpipers of sorts numerous by 1st September." "From 50 to 100
Cormorants on a rock remain fishing." October 22d: "I have never seen
such a rush of Redwings alone without any admixture. They commenced to
come about 7 P.M. _last night_, and continued to 'strike' till 4 A.M.;
but many remained at the lantern till daylight. They were mostly all
fine old birds. Most of those killed were on the N.E. side, so they
must have been flying dead against the wind, which was blowing strong
from the S.W." ... "It appears a S.W. wind here is best for migration."
"Greenfinches and Bramblings noted on 27th, with a gale from the S.W.
Very heavy migration."

Mr Agnew's letter of the 7th November 1887 is well worthy of careful
perusal, but is too long for insertion here;[7] but the following short
extracts, or digest, may be acceptable:--"The surprises I have met with
during the last month beat all previous ones (as shown in the schedule
to date). One of the few Goldcrests taken in the Long Island was found
dead amongst other species."

[Footnote 7: The materials have been utilised for a forthcoming work on
the "Vertebrate Fauna of the Outer Hebrides."]

On November 4th Mr Agnew reports the rushes of migrants as "very
extraordinary." "That of yesterday larger than that of 1st," and in
moonlight and clear. The advanced guard were Starlings from N.E.,
flying down the coast line, with wind "on the port bow." [_Note._--Mr
Agnew's notes are so voluminous and so interesting, that I hope some
way may be found to utilise them more fully. Many letters deserve a
better fate than oblivion. A great variety of species participated in
this rush, including Woodcock.--J. A. H.-B.]

_Barra Head._--Mr Chas. M'Fadzen sends two carefully filled schedules,
in which the Geese referred to are mostly Barnacle.

_Rona._--Messrs D. Dunnet and J. A. M'Gaw send one filled schedule,
from February 15th to November 12th, with the further note: "Migration
of birds here fewer in numbers than former years. Solan Geese all
summer as usual."

_Kyleakin._--Messrs D. MacCulloch and John Clyne send three well-filled
schedules. Rush noticeable early in November, but greater rush 10th
December of Larks and Linnets, yet not one seen near the lanterns.

_Skerryvore._--Mr Thomas Dawson sends four good schedules--two on Solan
Geese. Under date of 1st October, he says, whilst having little of
importance to relate, that he witnessed a remarkable tussle between
three Gannets and a large fish, two coming to help the first, which
had remained a long time under water after striking, whilst no doubt
struggling with its prey.

_Dhuheartach._--Messrs Wm. Davidson and J. W. M'Guffie send four good
schedules. The Siskin occurred on the 10th November, and was sent for
identification, having been caught on the lantern. "Heavy rush" all
night of 11th.

_Skervuile._--Mr John Ewing sends three filled schedules down to
November 21st, after which no more migration was observed. Harvie-Brown
visited Skervuile and landed on the whales-back-looking rock on which
the lighthouse is founded, and which is awash with the sea.

_Rhinns of Islay._--Messrs Peter Anderson and James Ducat send nine
carefully filled sheets, and write nearly each time at length. At the
same time we are now, thanks to these reporters, obliged for a much
more minute, and day-to-day return for each month of the year, most
carefully prepared under species and in tabular form, which cannot fail
to prove interesting and useful to work from. These date December 1886
to February 1888. The Rhinns of Islay must be looked upon as quite one
of the most important West Coast stations for migration.

A Manx Shearwater is reported as caught on the lantern on the 20th
April, and another was seen next morning. They are the first of the
kind the keepers ever remember seeing. The occurrence thus makes it
appear that Manx Shearwaters probably pair early, if they do not pair
for life.

On August 2d, clouds of Midges round the lantern; and on 13th, from
twenty to thirty Daddy-longlegs were captured. This season the very
worst for Caterpillars (or "Kail-worm"). Glass rarely below 60° on the
N. side at midnight, and again as warm on 10th September. [_Note._--The
warm weather about this time was universal.--J. A. H.-B.]

"The only rush we have had has been of Larks, and they have been in
greater numbers than any year since I came here. One solitary Redwing
is all I have seen this year. We have had such a long time of N. and
N.W. winds. Best winds are S. to S.E. to bring the most birds. On
October 9th, 1000's of Puffins appeared "flying North;" Iceland Gull on
10th; six Choughs seen on island on 16th, no doubt local birds. Heavy
returns from October 19th onwards to 25th, of Larks and Starlings.
Local visitation of Rooks owing to shooting going on through the
island, and their leaving the rookeries at Bridgend, etc.; also
Jackdaws. No great migration recorded in November of small land birds.
(Compare with Monach Isles returns.) Iceland Gull seen at head of
Lochindaul on the 9th of February 1888 (_in lit._ 15th February 1888.)

_Lochindaul: Islay._--Mr James Edgar sends eight carefully filled
and interesting schedules. Reports a Shearwater at the lantern on
21st April; it rested all night. [No doubt the same bird seen the day
before at Rhinns of Islay along with the one which was killed. This
is interesting, as showing a line of flight and the certainty bright
lights have of luring birds to them.--J. A. H.-B.]

_Lamlash._--Unsigned: one small return of five entries, between March
10th and September 17th, of Curlews, Thrush. Cuckoo heard. 25th April,
Snipe and Geese.

_Ailsa Craig._--Our first returns sent from the "Old Rock" are very
full in interest, and date January 9th, 1887, to December 20th,
occupying three schedules, by Mr William J. Dawson. "An Eagle seen on
the hill on 19th October and previously; 'very large,' and probably
a Sea-Eagle. Remained for more than three weeks. On 20th December a
Carrier Pigeon was chased into the yard by two Peregrine Falcons (a
pair build on the cliffs every season). They captured it next day. On
the 20th January 1888, another Carrier was seen with a paper attached
to it, and the Falcons were in pursuit of it. Most likely it shared the
same fate as the other." [If any one can throw further light on this
rather interesting note, we would be obliged. It serves, at least, to
show one danger which Carriers may be subjected to.--J. A. H.-B.]

"Very few birds come near this light, the lantern revolving so rapidly.
When I was at Pladda there were great rushes of birds at different
times both in spring and autumn, and large numbers were found dead."
[Our Committee has never received _a single return from Pladda_. This
chance note may yet be valuable.--J. A. H.-B.]

_Corsewall._--Mr Robert Laidlaw sends one well-filled schedule, and
notices the rushes of Blackbirds and _Turdidæ_ in October, and of the
same and _Fringillidæ_ (Linnets, etc.) in November.

_Mull of Galloway._--Messrs Alexander Murray and John M'Quarrie send
one schedule, also well filled, to date of September 17th.

_Little Ross._--Messrs Neil M'Donald and Robert Macintosh send four
good schedules. Petrel found dead at foot of tower, 23d January. Spring
migration considerable, but decidedly scarce on the autumn migration,
as compared with some other West Coast stations.


Remarks.

Pelecanidæ.--Of Gannets, by request, we have had a number of schedules
entirely devoted to them at some of the more prominent stations of
both East and West Coasts; but as these, with other accounts already
published, constitute material for a very thorough treatment of the
movements of the species, and their relations to the migrations of the
Herring, we do not think it advisable in this place to occupy space
with them.


Separate Report under Genera and Species.

Turdidæ.--Appears to have been the most numerous migrants in 1887.

_January._--A rush marked at Ailsa (1886 Report, _q.v._), and a few
singles.

_February._--Skervuile, 15th to 21st, "Blackbirds and Thrushes."
Turnberry, "many do. on 25th." At Little Ross, fewer, on 16th and 17th.

_March._--Stations are: Skerryvore (one), and Dhuheartach (one).
Rhinns of Islay, a few records of Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Redwings.
"Rush" at Ailsa Craig on 11th; strong N.E. breeze, snow. Little Ross,
scattered records between 1st and 26th of Thrushes and Blackbirds.

_April._--Only record is of two Fieldfares at Little Ross on 20th.
Nothing in May to _September_--intermittent of Thrushes, only four
dates at four places, _viz._, Barra Head, Kyleakin, Dhuheartach, and
Corsewall.

_October._--Numbers travelling, yet not so very densely. Rush of
Thrushes on 16th at Corsewall. Great numbers of Redwing at Butt of
Lewis, 21st and 22d; and one Fieldfare on 30th there. Other stations:
Dhuheartach, Rhinns of Islay (Redwings), Lochindaul, Corsewall, and
Little Ross.

_November._--At Monach Isles surprising numbers of Fieldfares and
Redwings, rushing between 1st and 12th; great numbers of Redwings
(see Diary); also on 1st, 10th, 11th (many Fieldfares). Large numbers
Mavis on 11th; also Blackbirds, scarcer. Rush felt most elsewhere at
Skerryvore and Dhuheartach, also on 11th; strong N.E. breeze!! all
night. Many killed at both these places. Lighter at Skervuile (Missel
Thrushes also), Fieldfares and Redwings; and at Lochindaul, 4th to 9th
to 20th, and Corsewall (generally full and large), but concentrated
most at Monach, Skerryvore, and Dhuheartach. Continued lightly into
December at same stations.

Saxicolinæ.--_February._--8th, one "Stonechat" at Little Ross.

_March._--1st, one Whinchat at Dhuheartach. 4th, one "Stonechat" at
Rhinns of Islay. [These "Stonechats," "Whinchats," and "Wheatears"
must, we fear, be hopelessly mixed always, as the correspondence now,
to fix it, would entail enormous labour.--J. A. H.-B.]

_April._--12th, Wheatear at Butt of Lewis; and 6th, ditto at Corran
Ferry; and 13th and 20th, a few ditto at same place. Whinchat at
Dhuheartach on 15th, and Wheatear on 17th. Other records at Rhinns of
Islay, Ailsa Craig (27th), and Little Ross (11th and 12th).

_May._--Two entries only at Dhuheartach (11th and 17th); W., N.W.

_August._--Records all the month--no great numbers, except "numbers" at
Little Ross on 7th--distributed as follows:--Butt of Lewis; Barra Head;
Rona, Skye; Skerryvore (21st); Dhuheartach (21st); Skervuile (1st, 2d,
3d, 5th, 7th, 10th, 12th, 15th, a few; 16th, 25th, 28th, pair; 30th,
31st--all in small numbers); and Little Ross, 7th (a number), and 11th;
winds variable, S.E. and S. to N., rarely W. or N.W.

_September._--Few, and all left Monach Isles by the 9th; but "many"
again there. "Many" on the 22d ("continued on"). At Butt of Lewis
also one seen on 21st. At Skerryvore, 3d, 4th, 21st ("Stonechats" in
distinction to Wheatears); 26th, ditto; and 25th, Redstart; and at
Dhuheartach, 26th, Wheatears; and at Lochindaul, fifteen ditto on 2d,
and again one on 14th.

No later records.

_October._--Only one Stonechat recorded in all from Skerryvore on 2d;
moderate W.; on rock.

Silviinæ.--Robin, Whitethroat.--_January._--15th, at Ailsa, two Robins.

_February._--28th, at Rhinns of Islay, one Robin.

_March._--2d, at Skervuile, one Robin; light S., rain. 4th, at Rhinns
of Islay, one ditto; light S.W. 28th, at Rhinns of Islay, twenty, 9
P.M. to 12 P.M.; W., haze.

_May._--2d, at Ailsa, two Robins; light breeze, S.; catch flies.

_August._--23d, at Butt of Lewis, one Whitethroat. 28th, at Lochindaul,
one Redbreast.

_September._--From 15th to 29th, at Rona, one Whitethroat on 21st.
Scattered occurrences of Robins at Kyleakin (one on 15th); Skervuile
(one); Rhinns of Islay (23d and 29th); Lochindaul (15th, 19th, 21st,
and 28th); Corsewall (23d); Mull of Galloway to November, two entries
at Lochindaul (2d and 9th).

Phylloscopinæ.--_March._--30th, one Gold crest at Lochindaul.

_May._--2d, Willow Warblers--one found dead at base of tower of Rhinns
of Islay.

_June._--At Rhinns of Islay, one Willow Warbler found dead in morning.

_August._--24th, at Butt of Lewis, "Chiffchaff" (?); and at Rhinns of
Islay, "Wood Wren" (?) on 22d. On 24th, at Little Ross, Willow Wren
found dead at tower.

_September._--Goldcrests scattered and scarce at Skervuile, Lochindaul,
and Little Ross.

_October._--One at Little Ross on 22d.

_November._--One at Rhinns of Islay on 5th.

_March._--Goldcrests scattered and scarce, at Rhinns of Islay,
Turnberry, and Little Ross.

_July._--Two entries only at Corsewall and little Ross.

_September._--Three records at Mull of Galloway and Little Ross.

_October._--Eight Golden-Crested Wrens at Little Ross.
[_Note._--Golden-Crested Wrens having been entered in ledger under
_Troglodytidæ_ or "Wrens," have got a little out of place.] Very
restricted migration. One obtained at Monach (rare).

Acrocephalinæ.--_September._--3d, one Sedge Warbler at Little Ross.

Troglodytidæ.--Wren.--One on April 5th at Ailsa; one at Skerryvore on
6th, on the rocks; and "great numbers different kinds of Wrens" on 11th
at Corsewall, probably Goldcrests, Common Wrens, Warblers; light N.E.
Scattered notices only of Common Wren, not of much significance.

Motacillidæ.--_March._--15th, at Monach, a Grey Wagtail [we suspect the
Pied is meant, as the true _Grey_ is really yellow with black throat]
Wagtails also at Lochindaul on 12th, and at Little Ross on 14th.

_April._--On 29th, at Monach, two, and on 9th; N.E., light. At
Lochindaul, a pair; N.E., light (flying as Agnew describes).

_May._--Between 7th (at Butt of Lewis) and 26th, at Little Ross, a few
records on five dates, inclusive, at these stations and intermediately
at Monach, Kyleakin, and Dhuheartach.

_July._--Two records at Kyleakin on 22d, and on 15th at Lochindaul.

_August._--23d, at Butt of Lewis. Scattered records, few and far
between, at Skerryvore, of "Grey Wagtails" (?); and of other Wagtails
at Lochindaul; and one at Little Ross on the 1st.

_September._--No great rush, except "many all day at Little Ross of
Grey Wagtails" (?) [probably winter Pied Wagtails.--J. A. H.-B.]
on 18th. (See remarks in previous Reports on Wagtails, on General
Post-Office, Edinburgh.) Scattered at Rhinns of Islay, Lochindaul, Mull
of Galloway, and Little Ross, during the month.

_October._--Three records only on 5th, 7th, and 25th, at Rhinns of
Islay and Lochindaul.

_December._--One record of three at Rhinns of Islay on 19th.

Anthidæ.--_March._--A number on 1st, at Monach, and very plentiful on
7th, Stray birds at Dhuheartach on 20th and 21st.

_April._--Titlark at Dhuheartach on 1st and 13th.

_August._--19th, at Rona, Titlarks; and Rock Pipits at Lochindaul on
25th.

_September._--Titlarks in small numbers from 12th to 13th--no rush--at
Butt of Lewis, Dhuheartach, and Skerryvore.

_October._--Two records at Skerryvore and Dhuheartach.

_November._--One on 9th at Skerryvore.

Muscicapidæ.--_August._--Only on 27th, at Mull of Galloway, one; S.E.,
haze to fog. On 29th, two; fresh S. breeze; and "Flycatchers" flying
about all night on 30th; S., fresh breeze.

Hirundinidæ.--_May._--6th, at Butt of Lewis, one, 9 A.M.; light W.
breeze, clear. 6th, at Dhuheartach, one swallow; light S.E. breeze,
flying E. 17th, at do., one swallow; strong S.W. breeze about rock.
6th, at Rhinns of Islay, eight swallows, 11.30 A.M.; strong E., haze,
flying N. 7th, at do., five swallows; strong E., haze, flying about.
9th, at do., three swallows; N.N.W., fresh haze, flying about. 10th, at
do., two swallows, 1 to 3 P.M.; flying about. 3d, at Lochindaul, one
Martin (first seen). 4th, at do., one pair Martin; N.W., flying about.
17th, at Ailsa, four pair Martins; S.; clear. 12th, at Little Ross, two
pair Martins; W., clear.

_June._--At Little Ross, four on 6th; a few on 9th; one on 23d; and one
on 24th; W. and light N.E., clear.

_April._--30th, at Kyleakin, one swallow (first seen); N., clear. Other
records at Skervuile (23d), Corsewall (17th), Mull of Galloway (26th).

_August._--Evidence of a considerable movement, but entries all light
comparatively. At Butt of Lewis, one, on 5th; at Kyleakin, one, on
4th; a few at Rhinns of Islay, and singles at Lochindaul to 23d, when
"flocks of;" and till 27th. Ailsa, one; and at Corsewall, Mull of
Galloway, and Little Ross, Martins flying East, on 13th.

_October._--Flocks on 4th, at Mull of Galloway, all day. Scattered
entries at Dhuheartach, Rhinns of Islay, Mull of Galloway, and Little
Ross.

Fringillidæ.--_January._--Linnets (Twites?) on 22d, at Kyleakin; and at
Little Ross, 20th and 27th.

_March._--Grey Linnets.--Numerous at Monach (?Twites?) on 7th; and on
23d, 1000's crossing from mainland; two, on 30th. [It is nearly certain
all these are Twites.--J. A. H.-B.]

_April._--Great flocks, 4th to 7th, at Little Ross; Linnets and
Sparrows reported from Kyleakin, and the latter from Rhinns of Islay on
21st.

_June._--Linnets at Little Ross, 6th, 7th, and 30th.

_August._--Grey Linnets at Kyleakin on 22d, flying about.

_September._--All the month in small numbers. Sparrows "numerous" at
Lochindaul about 9th and 10th, and Linnets also; also at Ailsa on
10th. A few all day, Mull of Galloway.

_October._--Greenfinches at Monach Isles, a few; and a _Brambling_ on
27th, and Green Linnets on 30th; also at Kyleakin and Rhinns of May;
and at the latter, one Chaffinch on 23d.

_November._--Large numbers, in flocks and parties, of Greenfinches. 2d
to 28th--a _great rush_ in comparison with other places.

_December._--Continuing in numbers all month.

Emberizidæ.--_March._--Snow Buntings at Butt of Lewis from N.E. At
Monach, a few Grey and Common and Snow Buntings. One Yellow Hammer at
Lochindaul.

_May._--Snow Buntings, five on 23d at Monach Isles; W., light; two
days' gale previously from north.

_September._--20th, one Snow Bunting at Butt of Lewis; N.W., light
breeze, clear.

_October._--At Monach one Snow Bunting; W.S.W., strong. Also at Butt of
Lewis, twelve on 18th, W., fresh, haze; and at Rhinns of Islay on 27th,
four Yellow Hammers; and on 22d, big flock on Ailsa; and twelve, three
days after, on 25th.

_November._--Stations:--Butt of Lewis, Monach, Lochindaul, and Ailsa
for Snow Buntings; "many" at the latter on 27th. Scarcely any migration
seen after November.

Alaudidæ.--Trifling in January and March; September, large flocks at
Monach on 23d; April (Monach). Numbers in February at several stations
[I suspect these are mostly very local flights.--J. A. H.-B.]; a few
in March, early leading up. A great rush daily by 28th, at Rhinns of
Islay; 11th, at Ailsa (rush); 31st, at Lochindaul, daily. Few after.

_April._--Few.

_September._--Great movements reported from Butt of Lewis, Dhuheartach,
Monach, and elsewhere. "Rush" about 21st. All October in varying
numbers at the stations; and November, "marvellous lots" at Monach;
continuing in hundreds in December at the best recording stations.

Corvidæ.--(_See Diary._) Nothing of fresh interest. Choughs in Islay.

Cypselidæ.--Swift at Butt of Lewis on 12th--S.S.W. breeze, rain; and
one at same place on 27th August.

Strigidæ.--A few odd records of Owls--May (one), Jane (one), September
(two), October (one Barn Owl at Rhinns of Islay), November (three Barn
Owls at Rhinns of Islay at lantern).

Accipitinæ.--Numbers of records of Hawks on predatory quests (Merlin,
Sparrow, Kestrel, Falcon) at almost all times when other birds are
there, bulking, of course, at the height of the migratory season,
especially of the Waders and Sandpipers.

Pelecanidæ.--Special schedules for Gannets, and the whole Gannet
migration will be undertaken later.

Ardeidæ.--No new information to be gleaned.

Anatidæ.--Eiders.--100 at Monach on _March_ 7th, coming _from_
the north; and 50 on 8th, males and females. Small flocks--ten to
twenty-five--on 5th, 6th, 10th, 12th, 13th at Rhinns of Islay, and on
11th and 24th _April_.

Again in _May_, Merganser Ducks at Monach--came on 28th, left on 30th.
Eider continued to be seen during May in flocks here and there, and
fewer in June.

Generally Ducks and Geese appeared abundant in September, October, and
November. Consisted of the following species recorded:--"Wild Geese,"
Eiders, Wild Ducks, Mergansers (Monach), Barnacle Geese (Barra Head),
Teal Duck? (Barra Head). At the following stations:--Butt of Lewis
(Eiders and Wild Geese); Monach (Eiders, Wild Geese, Mergansers--very
abundant, and a few Wild Duck); Rona (Eiders); Kyleakin (Wild Geese);
Barra Head (Barnacle Geese, Teal Duck?); Skerryvore (Barnacle Geese,
Eiders); Dhuheartach (do. do.); Rhinns of Islay (Wild Geese, Eiders
abundantly, and Ducks of sorts); Lochindaul, etc., etc.

Charadriidæ.--Oyster-Catchers; nothing new. Golden Plovers, no great
autumn movement. Few other records at all of Lapwings, Ring Dotterels.
A sort of rush of Lapwings in August, 1st to 24th; at Lochindaul,
greatest on 14th, but flocks for days before. A few seen at Ailsa
Craig, and one only at Mull of Galloway.

_September._--Few records at all.

_October._--Lapwings entirely at Rhinns of Islay, and in November the
same.

Scolopacidæ.--Curlews universal; nothing new. Other species mentioned
all through the year. _Whimbrel_ at Rhinns of Islay (May), forty in
a flock; rested. _Jack Snipe?_ at Butt of Lewis, 25th August. Snipe:
Woodcock (in November), 12th only; at Rona, Skye, and at Dhuheartach
same date. (Scarce this season, at least, as seen on migration.) Most
of the records here apply, and bulk with Curlew. Sandpipers, Redshanks,
Dunlins at several stations also.

Sturninæ and Laridæ.--Nothing of much fresh interest Besides commoner
species, the following are noticed:--Boatswain Birds (15th August, at
Skervuile); Skuas and "Dirty Aliens," "Small Gulls" (at Skervuile, 17th
July); Iceland Gulls (Rhinns of Islay), etc.

Alcidæ, Colymbidæ.--Unusually abundant in Autumn at most stations, but
do not warrant special remark here.




WEST COAST OF ENGLAND AND WALES, AND THE ISLE OF MAN.

Schedules and letters of instruction, with stamped envelopes for
wings, were sent to the fifty-three under-mentioned lighthouses and
light-vessels on the West and South-West Coasts of England, the Coasts
of Wales, and the Isle of Man, and returns have been received from the
thirty-four stations marked with an asterisk.

The following is an enumeration of the stations included in this
section of the Report:--

    No. on
     Map.

  Isle of Man.

     115. L.H. Point of Ayre.
     116. L.H. Douglas Head.
    *117. L.H. Langness,            Mr Robert Clyne.
    *118. L.H. Chickens Rock,       Messrs Black and Beggs.
    *119. L.V. Bahama Bank,         Mr John West.

  N. W. England.

    *120. L.H. St Bees,             Mr Henry Nott.
    *121. L.V. Selker,              Messrs Daniel Kneale
                                      and George Cumming.
    *122. L.V. Morecambe Bay,       Henry Clavell.
    *123. L.V. River Dee,           Mr S. Work.

  North Wales.

     124. L.H. Air.
    *125. L.H. Menai,               Mr Joseph Steer.
    *126. L.H. Skerries Rock,       Messrs Rees, Smith, Tomkinson,
                                      and Williams.
    *127. L.H. Holyhead Breakwater, Messrs Prichard, Roberts, and Hughes.
    *128. L.H. South Stack,         Mr. W. R. Burgess.
    *129. L.V. Carnarvon Bay,       Messrs Thomas and Hughes.
     130. L.H. St Tudwal's.         Messrs Davies and Parsons.
    *131. L.H. Bardsey Island,      Mr Thomas Bowen.
    *132. L.V. Cardigan Bay,        Messrs Rees and Comben.

  South Wales.

    *133. L.H. South Bishop,        Messrs Nicholas and Pell.
    *134. L.H. Smalls,              Mr George Baker.
    *135. L.H. Great Castle Head,   Mr W. L. Davis.
    *136. L.H. Milford (St Ann's),  Mr James F. Spicer.
    *137. L.H. Caldy,               Mr Wm. Ebben.
    *138. L.V. Helwick,             Messrs Webber and Howells.

  Bristol Channel.

    *139. L.V. Scarweather,         Messrs Havells and Wyness.
    *140. L.H. Nash (E. ),          Mr Henry Nicholas.
    *141. L.V. Breaksea,            Messrs Walters and Johnson.
    *142. L.H. Flatholm,            Mr W. Dale.
     143. L.V. English and Welsh Grounds.
    *144. L.H. Usk.
     145. L.H. Avon.
    *146. L.H. Burnham,             Mr William Lewis.

  South-Western England.

    *147. L.H. Bull Point,          Mr George Knott.
    *148. L.H. Bideford Bar,        Mr Thomas Gilpin.
     149. L.H. Lundy Island.
     150. L.H. Hartland Point.
     151. L.H. Trevose Head.
    *152. L.H. Godrevy,             Mr Richard Trahair.
    *153. L.H. Longships,           Mr Jno. W. Watson.
    *154. L.V. Sevenstones,         Mr Daniel Norton.
    *155. L.H. Wolf Rock,           Mr J. J. Chavner.
     156. L.H. Scilly.
    *157. L.H. Bishop's Rock,       Mr Jno. W. Troth.
     158. L.H. Lizard Point.
     159. L.H. Falmouth Harbour.
    *160. L.H. Eddystone,           Messrs Ainger and Gaudion.
    *161. L.H. Plymouth Breakwater, Mr Arthur Ebgar.
    *162. L.H. Start Point,         Mr William Jones.
    *163. L.H. Portland Bill,       Messrs Frost and Counter.
    *164. L.V. Shambles,            Mr William Clark.
     165. L.H. Anvil Point.
    *166. L.H. Hurst Castle,        Mr G. G. Appleton.
     167. L.H. The Needles.

Our best thanks are due to the observers above named for their
invaluable co-operation, and for the faithful manner in which they have
filled in their schedules. To Messrs Ainger and Gaudion (Eddystone),
Bowen (Bardsey), Clark (Shambles), Knott (Bull Point), Nicholas (Nash),
Norton (Sevenstones), Rees and Smith (Skerries), Steer (Menai), Thomas
and Hughes (Carnarvon Bay), Walters and Johnson (Breaksea), and Webber
and Howells (Helwick), additional and special thanks are due for
sending the wings of the following species killed or captured at their
respective stations:--

  Date.       Species.           Station.                      Remarks.
  1887.
  Mar.  11,   Lapwing,           Sevenstones L.V.,    1 caught.
    "   18,   Pied Wagtail,      Nash L.H.,           8 killed.
  April 24,   Willow Warbler,    Eddystone L.H.,       ....
    "   30, { Whinchat, ♂ }
            { Redstart,   }      Shambles L.V.,      40 caught.
  May    3, { Reed Warbler,  }
            { White throat,  }
            { Wood Warbler,  }
            { Willow Warbler,}
            { Redstart,      }   Eddystone L.H.,      many killed
    "    "    Sedge Warbler,     Nash L.H.,           5 killed.
    "    "    Willow Warbler,       "                 4   "
    "    "    Whitethroat,          "                42   "
    "    "    Blackcap,             "                 1   "
    "    4,   Pied Flycatcher,      "                 1   "
    "    6,   Redstart,          Carnarvon Bay L.V.,  1   "
    "   15,   Whitethroat,          "                 1   "
    "    "    Sedge Warbler,     Helwick L.V.,        3   "
    "    "    Ring Plover,          "                 1   "
  Aug.  16,   Willow Warbler,    Skerries L.H.,       1   "
   "     "    Sedge Warbler,        "                 1   "
   "    17,   Willow Warbler,       "                 1   "
   "    18,      "                  "                 1   "
   "     "    Sedge Warbler,        "                 1   "
   "     "    Willow Warbler,    Nash L.H.,          10   "
   "     "    Sedge Warbler,         "               35   "
   "     "    Spotted Flycatcher,    "               14   "
   "    25,   Willow Warbler,    Skerries L.H.,      12   "
   "    29,   Sedge Warbler,         "               several.
  Sept. 17,   Grey Wagtail,      Eddystone L.H.,       ....
   "    18,   Turnstone,         Skerries L.H.,       1.
   "    20,   Sedge Warbler,     Nash L.H.,          27.
   "    21,   Whitethroat,       Eddystone L.H.,       ....
   "     "    Tree Pipit,            "                 ....
   "     "    Dunlin,                "                 ....
   "     "    Wheatear,              "                 ....
   "    21,   Sedge Warbler,      Eddystone L.H.,      ....
   "    23,   Blackcap,           Menai L.H.,         1.
   "    30,   Pied Wagtail,       Eddystone L.H.,      ....
   "     "    Meadow Pipit,           "                ....
   "     "    Yellow Wagtail,         "                ....
  Oct.   3,   Albino Starling,    Bardsey L.H.,       shot.
   "     9,   Common Thrush,      Breaksea L.V.,      1.
   "    17,   Chaffinch,          Skerries L.H.,       ....
   "    30,   Wren,                   "                ....
  Nov.   3,   Rock Pipit,             "               shot.
   "     7,   Chaffinch,          Nash L.H.,          1.
   "     "    Redwing,                "               6.
   "     "    Common Thrush,          "              11.
   "     "    Short-eared Owl,    Skerries L.H.,      shot.
   "     8,   Golden Eye,             "               ♂.
   "     "    Jack Snipe,             "               shot.
   "     9,   Grey Plover,        Nash L.H.,          4 killed.
   "    11,   Chaffinch,          Bull Point L.H.,    1   "    ♂.
   "    13,   Water Rail,         Nash L.H.,           ....
   "    14,   Blackcap,               "               15 killed.
   "     "    Stonechat,              "                4   "
   "     "  { Woodcock, }                          {   3   "
            { Snipe,    }                          {   6   "
            { Skylark,  }             "            { 104   "
   "    19,   Knot,                   "                ....
   "    21,   Coot,               Breaksea L.V.,       1 killed.

In addition to the observations furnished by the various Light-keepers,
the following notes have been incorporated:--

Observations made in Cumberland, communicated by Messrs Macpherson and
Duckworth.

Notes from the North-West Coast of Merioneth, by Mr G. H. Caton-Haigh.

To the above-named ornithologists, and to Mr W. Cecil Scott, of Leeds,
the writer begs to tender his best thanks for their valued co-operation.



Summary of Observations.

_January._--On several occasions during the month a few Thrushes,
Fieldfares, Blackbirds, Larks, Starlings, and Curlews were observed at
the lanterns, but all the movements recorded appear to be purely local
in their nature.

_February._--The same species are occasionally and locally noted as in
January; but on the 17th, Wheatears were noted at the Chickens Rock
lantern, and a Ring Ouzel was shot at St Tudwal's--these harbingers of
spring making their appearance with the south-westerly winds and mild
weather which then spread over our islands.

_March._--The month commenced with a spell of anticyclonic
weather--cold, gloomy, and foggy over England during the daytime,
but with sharp frosts at night. The effect of this weather led to a
renewal of the local movements of the Turdidæ, Chaffinches, Larks,
Starlings, Lapwings, etc. Shallow local disturbances followed, and
on the 15th, which was a most miserable and unsettled day all over
England, there was a very great rush of birds at the Nash, flying
before very heavy snow, from 8.30 A.M. to 3 P.M. Mr Nicholas says, "two
or three hundred birds could be seen at a time," and that he recognised
Skylarks, Starlings, Snipe, Woodcocks, Lapwings, Golden Plovers,
Mallard, Teal, and many other birds flying in the snow. Anticyclones
followed, prevailing until the 20th, producing a good deal of fog and
severe frosts. The frost caused some of the lanterns to be visited by
the usual gipsy species, but, among others, a "Woodcock, eight Pied
Wagtails, and a Kingfisher were killed. Unsettled weather followed.
On the 29th an anticyclone advanced completely over the British
Islands, and with it fair, dry, quiet weather prevailed until the end
of the month. On the 29th, amongst other species, scores of Wheatears
fluttered around the Eddystone light; on the 30th, Razorbills and
Puffins put in an appearance at their summer haunts on the Calf of Man;
and Puffins arrived at St Tudwal's on the 31st.

_April._--The month commenced with cold winds and showers of snow and
sleet. After the 5th the disturbing conditions passed away, and on the
7th fine bright sunny weather was established, though the temperature
remained low. On the 10th, Ring Ouzels and Wheatears were recorded, and
the first Swallows appeared at four stations between Devon and the Isle
of Man on the 11th. On the 17th the fine weather broke, and changeable,
unsettled conditions prevailed over the country generally. During this
period Ring Ouzels, Wheatears, and Willow and other Warblers were
observed at the Eddystone, and a few Swallows at various stations.
Towards the end of the month fine weather again prevailed, and on the
30th a Cuckoo was beard at St Bees, and numbers of Whinchats and
Redstarts were captured at the lantern of the Shambles light-vessel.

_May._--On the 3d the depression which prevailed during the earliest
days of the month passed away, and variable breezes, with fair weather
in some places and local showers in others, prevailed until the 5th.
On the 3d and 4th, extraordinary rushes of summer immigrants occurred
at the Eddystone and Nash stations (and at Helwick on the 4th), when
Wheatears, Whitethroats, Sedge Warblers, Willow Wrens, Wood Warblers,
Blackcaps, Reed Warblers, Redstarts, Pied Flycatchers, and Swallows
were killed--some in considerable numbers--at the lanterns. On the
16th and 18th, in varying weather, there were arrivals of summer and
transient birds at the S.W. stations. Conditions afterwards were
most unsettled until the 24th, the weather being wretchedly cold and
rough. The only bird recorded during this period was the Swift--a
species associated in some districts in England with such unsettled
meteorological conditions. On the 25th a high-pressure system appeared,
with northerly and easterly winds, though dull and cold for the time of
the year. From this date to the end of the month there were continuous
arrivals of summer birds, and many Sandpipers and Plovers passed the
Eddystone on their way to the far north.

_June._--The returns for this month are quite unimportant.

_August._--The first movement from the breeding habitats was recorded
for the 4th, when Curlews were noted at Menai, the Scarweather L.V.,
and at Bideford Bar. On the 11th, Whimbrel arrived, and, along with
Willow Warblers, Sedge Warblers, and Whitethroats, struck against
the Nash lantern. The weather entirely broke up on the 15th, and
thunderstorms began to prevail. The 19th and 20th were very cold, and
at night slight ground frosts occurred in several localities. During
this spell of rough weather a number of summer birds were recorded as
emigrating--Swifts, Swallows, Martins, Warblers, Flycatchers, and Land
Rails. The weather then mended, and became fine and hot, and little
migration appears to be recorded for the latter days of the month.

_September._--The month commenced with a period of very rough weather,
south-westerly and westerly gales blowing with great force in the
Channel and on our South-West Coasts. On the passing, away of this
severe disturbance, a series of smaller ones followed, and continued
with little interruption until the middle of the month. The returns up
to the 17th show an almost complete dearth of bird-movements during
this interval. On the 17th an anticyclonic spell commenced, which
lasted, without intermission, till the 25th, and concomitant with
it were general migratory movements, full particulars of which are
furnished in the Diary section of this report. A cyclonic distribution
succeeded, during which the weather was on the whole fair and
dry--foggy at times, and cold for the time of the year--and but little
migration was noted.

_October_ commenced with an anticyclonic stage--cold, dry, and fine,
with westerly breezes in the north, easterly ones in the south. This
lasted until the 9th, and during its prevalence not unimportant
movements occurred from the 5th to the 9th, when Larks, Thrushes, Ring
Ouzels, Finches, Warblers of several species, Swallows, and Gold crests
appeared at the lanterns. After the 9th a period of very unsettled
cyclonic weather ensued; the wind became northerly and increased in
force, and showers of snow, sleet, or cold rain continued to fall over
the United Kingdom; and cold and unsettled weather continued with us
until nearly the middle of the month, with no migration. On the 15th
the depression had disappeared, being replaced by an anticyclonic
stage lasting until the 22d. During this favourable interval there
were important and general immigrations and transient movements of
winter birds. There followed a decided alteration in the stability
of the meteorological conditions over the British Islands and their
neighbourhood. Various systems appeared of a transitory nature, and the
changes of wind and weather were consequently both sudden and frequent.
The movements of birds recorded in our Diary for this changeable period
which witnessed the close of the month were neither many nor important.

_November._--The month commenced with a spell of exceedingly
changeable, unsettled weather, which lasted uninterruptedly until about
the 8th. During this period the only movement worthy of mention was
the not unimportant one recorded for the S.W. stations on the 7th.
On the afternoon of the 11th an anticyclonic period commenced, and
prevailed, with little break, until the 17th. There were important
general movements on the 11th (on which date a great many--_Saxicola
isabellina_--was obtained at Allonby in Cumberland), 13th, 14th, with
interesting observations on the 17th and 18th, at S.W. stations.

There were no other movements of importance up to the close of the year.


Diary of the Migratory Movements as Observed at the various Stations.

The sequence of the stations is from north to south. The wind and
weather, as observed at the stations, are given in parenthesis: for the
weather, the symbols of the Beaufort scale have been adopted;[8] while
the force of the wind ranges from 0 to 12.

[Footnote 8: Beaufort scale:--B. blue sky; C. detached clouds; D.
drizzling rain; F. fog; G. dark, gloomy; H. hail; L. lightning; M.
misty; O. overcast; P. passing showers; Q. squally; R. rain; S. snow;
T. thunder; U. ugly, threatening; V. visibility, unusual transparency;
W. dew.]

The diction of the observers has been closely adhered to. The
identification of the species marked thus * has been verified by the
wings sent.


JANUARY.

January 1st.--_Bahama Bank_ L.V., large number of Starlings and
Thrushes at 9.40 A.M., flying W. (4, S.W.; B. C. M.)

January 5th.--_Bahama Bank_ L.V., number of Starlings, Thrushes, and
Larks flying round lantern from 10 P.M. till 4 A.M. Four Starlings, six
Thrushes, and two Larks killed. (S., 5; snow.)

January 8th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., Several Thrushes, Fieldfares, and
Blackbirds flying round lantern throughout the night. (N.N.E. fresh
breeze; haze.)

January 10th.--_Bahama Bank_ L.V., about forty Thrushes and Larks
flying round lantern all night; two Thrushes and one Lark killed.
(S.W., 1; B. C. M.)

January 15th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., number of Curlews flying round
lantern all night. (S.E. strong breeze; haze.)

January 27th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., number of small birds flying round
lantern all night. (S.S.W. gale.)


FEBRUARY.

February 7th.--Cumberland, a Grey Phalarope at Silloth.

February 10th.--_St Tudwal's_ L.H., two Thrushes struck lantern at 6
A.M. _Sevenstones_ L.V., a Bullfinch flew on board to rest at 1.30 P.M.
(E., 4; clear.)

February 16th.--_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., large flocks of Thrushes and
Larks all night; left for land at "fogbreak." One Thrush and one Lark
killed. (S.S.W., 4; G. M.) Merionethshire, a great many Snipe appeared,
but only remained two or three days.

February 17th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., flocks of Thrushes, Blackbirds,
Starlings, and Wheatears flying round lantern all night. (S.S.W. fresh
breeze; haze.) _St Tudwal's_ L.H., a "Ringed Ouzel" shot at 9 A.M.

February 18th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., two Thrushes killed, midnight.
(N. by E., 6; clear.)

February 20th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Fieldfare struck lantern, and
found dead at 4 A.M. (Light S.W.; showers.)

February 23d.--_Langness_ L.H., one Song Thrush struck and killed at 2
A.M. (Strong S.W.; haze.)

February 24th.--_Merionethshire_, a Little Auk diving within gun-shot
of the windows at 8 A.M. Weather very rough, with violent gales from
S.W.

February 25th.--_Merionethshire_, flock of about a dozen Pied Wagtails.
(Strong N.W.) No more till March 20th, when several appeared.

February 28th.--_St Tudwal's_ L.H., a Blackbird and a Lark killed at 5
A.M.


MARCH.

March 1st.--_Selker_ L.V., one male Blackbird struck the lantern
and was killed at 12.30 A.M. (S., 3; B. C.) Larks, Starlings, and
Blackbirds from midnight to 4.20 A.M. One male Starling struck lantern
and was killed. (Calm: O. M.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., one Blackbird
killed during night. (S.W., 2; clear.) _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., several
Blackbirds at 2 A.M.; three caught; others left at daybreak. (S.S.W.,
4; C. V.) _Eddystone_ L.H., a Thrush caught at 11 P.M. A flock of
Lapwings flying around the light at midnight. (N.E., 1; C. M.)

March 2d.--_Selker_ L.V., large flocks of Chaffinches at 9.30 A.M.
going S.W. Fifteen Chaffinches going S.W. at 11.30 A.M. (S., 1; O. M.)
_Langness_ L.H., one Starling on lantern at 3 A.M. One female Blackbird
on lantern at 4.30 A.M., and four Blackbirds at 9 A.M. (Light S.W.;
haze.) _Smalls_ L.H., Starlings and Blackbirds striking window all
night; many killed. (W., 1; O. V.)

March 4th.--_Langness_ L.H., a Lark on lantern at 3 A.M. (Light S.W.;
haze.) _Caldy_ L.H., twenty Puffins at 6 A.M. (S.W., 5; C.) _Eddystone_
L.H., Blackbirds and Thrushes from 3 to 5 A.M.; two caught. (E., 4; B.
C. M.)

March 5th.--_Smalls_ L.H., Lapwings at 3 P.M. (E.S.E., 3; O. M.)
Five remained on the rock until the following day. _Eddystone_ L.H.,
Blackbirds, Missel Thrushes, Starlings, and Larks from 3 to 4 A.M.;
many striking. (E., 4; C. M.)

March 7th.--_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., two Lapwings at 8 A.M. "One fell
alongside, and caught; it seemed fagged out." (E.S.E., 2; M.)

March 9th.--_Eddystone_ L.H., numbers of small birds flying around the
lantern all night; none striking. (Light and variable; C. M.)

March 10th.--_Selker_ L.V., Larks and Thrushes all night; all
disappeared at daybreak. (Calm; O. M.) _St Tudwal's_ L.H., two
Blackbirds on the island at 10 A.M. _Eddystone_ L.H., small birds all
night--Blackbirds and Thrushes resting on the roof. (E.; O.)

March 12th.--_Bishop Rock_ L.H., "Puffins arrived. They are seven days
later than last year."

March 15th.--_Merionethshire_, Woodcock, last seen. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H.,
"A very great rush of birds flying before a very heavy snow, from 8.30
A.M. to 3 P.M. (Wind E., 3; O. S.) Two or three hundred birds could be
seen at a time as follows: Snipes, Lapwings, Golden Plovers, Starlings,
Skylarks, Woodcocks (a few), Wild Duck, Teal, and many other birds
which could not be named, flying in the snow."

March 17th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., Thrushes and Starlings throughout
the night. (Calm, misty.)

March 18th.--_Selker_ L.V., one Woodcock, one Thrush, and two Larks
found dead on deck, killed during night. (S.E., 3; snow, misty.) _Nash_
(_E._) L.H., eight *Pied Wagtails killed between 1 and 3 A.M. (N.E., 2;
B. C. M.)

March 19th.--_Langness_ L.H., twenty-one Geese at 3 P.M. flying N.E.
(Light E.; haze.) _Bahama Bank_ L.V., two Thrushes and two Starlings
killed at 11.15 P.M. (S.E., 4; hazy.) _St Tudwal's_ L.H., six Wild
Geese flying N.E. at 5.40 P.M. _Helwick_ L.V., a Kingfisher struck the
lantern at 3 A.M. (S.S.W., 2; haze.)

March 20th.--_Bahama Bank_ L.V., two Thrushes at 10.45 P.M.; one
killed. One Flycatcher and one Lark flying round lantern at 10.45 P.M.
(S. by E., 3; O. G.) _Selker_ L.V., several Starlings and Larks flying
about the light from 12 P.M. to 4 A.M. One Starling caught alive.
_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., several birds all night. One Starling and one
Blackbird killed. (S., 3; B. M.) _Eddystone_ L.H., Larks and Lapwings
at 3 A.M. (E.N.E., 4.)

March 21st.--_Cumberland_, Sand Martins at Cockermouth.

March 23d.--_Selker_ L.V., a great many Blackbirds and Thrushes flying
about the light from 12 P.M. to 4 A.M. (5, S.S.E.; rain, misty.) Three
Thrushes found dead on deck, and one Blackbird caught alive. (5, N. by
W.; C. M.) _Merionethshire_, Golden-eye, last seen.

March 24th.--_Merionethshire_, one Whimbrel.

March 26th.--_Langness_ L.H., several Thrushes striking between 9 and
12 P.M. One Redwing found dead. (Light W.; rain.) _Selker_ L.V., a
great many Thrushes flying about the light from 9 to 12 P.M. (5, S.W.;
R., misty.)

March 27th.--_Langness_ L.H., one ♀ Blackbird on lantern at 4 A.M.
(Light W.; rain.) A few Wagtails at 3 P.M. _St Bees_ L.H., first
appearance of Pied Wagtail. _Selker_ L.V., Thrushes and Larks flying
round the light from 12 to 4 A.M. (5, W. by N.; R., misty.)

March 28th.--_Langness_ L.H., "a Cuckoo at 10 A.M." (Fresh W.; clear.)

March 29th.--_Eddystone_ L.H., Lapwings, Blackbirds, Missel Thrushes,
Starlings, Fieldfares, and scores of Wheatears at the lantern between
12.30 to 5 A.M. One Blackbird and six Starlings killed. (Light and
variable; B. C. M.)

March 30th.--_Langness_ L.H., two Golden-crested Wrens, one ♂
Chaffinch, and a large number of Pipits at 4 P.M. (Light N.; clear.)
_Chickens Rock_ L.H., Razorbills and Puffins in great numbers all day.
(Variable, frosty.) These birds breed on the Calf of Man, and Mr Black
says they have come about a fortnight earlier than they did last year.
_Merionethshire_, Meadow Pipit, small flocks. (Light E.)

March 31st.--_St Tudwal's_ L.H., about fifty Puffins arrived at the
island. _Helwick_ L.V., forty Lapwings going N.E. at 10 A.M. (W., 3;
clear.)


APRIL.

April 1st.--_Merionethshire_, Wheatear, first seen. "This is the
latest date I have noted for the arrival of this bird." (Strong N.
wind blowing.) Red-breasted Merganser, last seen, a flock of six adult
males; very scarce all through the winter.

April 9th.--_Merionethshire_, "Chiffchaff. This unusually late date of
arrival was probably owing to the prevalence of strong winds from N.
and N.W., from the end of March till April 8th, when it changed to E.
for some days. Abundant on April 10th."

April 10th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Ring Ouzel and about a dozen
Wheatears at 3 P.M. (Light E.; clear.) _St Bees_ L.H., first appearance
of Wheatear.

April 11th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Swallow at 10 A.M. (Light E.; haze.)
_Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., several Swallows about the lighthouse at
10 A.M. (O. B. C.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., the first Swallow seen at noon
going E.N.E. _Bull Point_ L.H., three Swallows at 2 P.M. going E.

April 12th.--_Burnham_ L.H., Sheldrakes congregating at their
breeding-haunts between the two lighthouses.

April 14th.--_Merionethshire_, one Whimbrel heard.

April 16th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., nine Swallows at 11 A.M. (E. strong
breeze; haze.) _Merionethshire_, Willow Wren, in some numbers. (Light
E.)

April 17th.--_Merionethshire_, one Blackcap seen. Common Sandpiper
arrived. (Light S.W.)

April 18th.--_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., four Swallows going E. at 10 A.M. (E.,
3; B. M.) _Merionethshire_, Whinchat, one seen. (S.W. light.)

April 19th.--_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., two Swallows passed to N.E. at 8 am.
(N.W, 3; C. M.)

April 20th.--_Langness_ L.H., a few Solan Geese at 7 A.M. (Light W.;
clear.)

April 21st.--_St Bees_ L.H., one Fieldfare killed at 11.30 P.M. (S.W.,
4; fog and rain.) _Selker_ L.V., one Thrush found on deck, killed
during night. (5, S.W.; C. M. P.) _Eddystone_ L.H., several Ring
Ouzels, Thrushes, Larks, and numbers of Wheatears flying around the
lantern from 9.30 P.M. to 2.30 A.M. (22d). Two Ring Ouzels (♂ and ♀),
and one Thrush caught; several lost over. (S.W, 5; C. R. M.)

April 23d.--_Cumberland_, Cuckoo at Carlisle. _Carnarvon Bay_
L.V., several unknown small birds around the lantern at 11 P.M.
_Merionethshire_, Swallow, first seen. (Strong S.W.) Martin, one in the
village of Penrhyndendraeth. (Strong S.W.)

April 24th.--_Merionethshire_, many Whimbrel. (Strong N.W, with hail
showers.) _Eddystone_ L.H., numbers of small birds--Warblers, Larks,
Ring Ouzels--flying past the lantern from 10 P.M. to 3 A.M.; a Ring
Ouzel and a *Willow Warbler caught. (N.E. by E, 1; O. P. V.)

April 25th.--_Cumberland_, Golden-eye and Widgeon, last seen at
Monkhill. _Merionethshire_, Tree Pipit arrived. (Strong N.W, cold.)

April 26th.--_Cumberland_, Corncrake telegraphed at Cockermouth.
_Merionethshire_, Cuckoo heard in the evening. It is said to have been
heard on the 24th. (Strong N.W.; thunder and hail, and heavy fall of
snow on the mountain.)

April 27th.-_-Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., four Swallows flying E. at 4
P.M. (W.S.W., 6; B. C. P.)

April 29th.--_Cumberland_, Swallow arrived at Cockermouth. _St
Tudwal's_ L.H., hundreds of Puffins arrived. _Merionethshire_,
Whimbrel, heard a flock going over at night.

April 30th.--_Langness_ L.H., several Willow Warblers at 10 A.M.
(Light N.E.; clear.) _St Bees_ L.H., heard Cuckoo, first time this
season. _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., a good few Wrens and Linnets at 2
A.M.; several killed. (E, 4; mist, rain.) _Shambles_ L.V., small birds
in quantity (name unknown) at lantern during the night; fifty caught.
Wings of a *Whinchat and a *Redstart sent for identification. (E. by S,
3; cloudy.)


MAY.

May 1st.--_Caldy_ L.H., a Cuckoo on the island at 9 A.M. _Helwick_
L.V., two Swallows flying N. about 11 A.M. _Bideford Bar_ L.H., a
Cuckoo, several "Mountain Larks," and one Swift at 9 A.M. (E, 4.)
_Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., two Swallows at 7.50 P.M.

May 3d.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., one Flycatcher killed at midnight.
(E.N.E., 2; misty.) _Merionethshire_, one Swift. (Light E., dull
and cloudy.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a rush of immigrants from 9 P.M.
until midnight--*Wheatears (twenty to thirty struck, seven killed),
*Whitethroats (_S. cinerea_) (100 to 200 struck, forty-two killed),
*Sedge Warblers (thirty to forty struck, live killed), *Willow Warblers
(ten to fifteen struck, four killed), *Blackcap (four struck, one
killed). (E., 2; M. D. R.) _Bull Point_ L.H., several Swallows. Three
Swifts at 6 P.M. _Eddystone_ L.H., hundreds of birds this morning from
midnight to 3 A.M.: Swallows, Wheatears, *Reed Warblers, *Whitethroats,
*Wood Warblers, *Willow Warblers, and *Redstarts, many of which were
killed and fell over; and Mr Gaudion tells me he "could scarcely walk
on the gallery for them." (W.N.W., 3; C. G. V.) At 9 P.M. the movement
was renewed, and lasted until 3.30 A.M. (4th _q.v._)

May 4th.--_Langness_ L.H., several Wheatears at 3 P.M. _St, Bees_ L.H.,
heard Corncrake, first time this season. _Merionethshire_, Common
Sandpiper, considerable numbers. Whimbrel, several large flocks.
_Selker_ L.V., two Swallows going S.W. at 3.30 P.M. (2, S.S.E.; B.
C.) _Helwick_ L.V., a great number of small birds around the lantern,
also Curlews. Two Warblers and three Whitethroats killed. (N.E., 3;
O. M. R.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H. (continuation of last night's rush). A
*Pied Flycatcher, ♂, killed at 2.30 A.M.; two *Wheatears killed at 3.15
A.M. (E.S.E., 4; C. M. D.) _Bull Point_ L.H., two "Wrens" found killed
against the lantern. _Eddystone_ L.H. (continuation of last night's
movement). Large numbers of small birds from midnight to 3.30 A.M.,
apparently the same species as yesterday. A Nightjar killed at 2.30
A.M. (W., 2; O. R. M.)

May 5th.--_Merionethshire_, Corncrake, first heard. (Light E.)

May 6th.--_Langness_ L.H., a few Swallows and eight Lapwings at 2 P.M.
(Fresh E.; haze.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., "Sea Swallows" (_Sterna_),
flying round the island at daylight. (E.S.E., 5; misty.) Mr Rees says:
"Sea Swallows always come to this island true to the morning of the 6th
May; then they leave again for one week, and then return for the laying
season." _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., a male *Redstart at noon. (Calm, fog.)
_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., two Blackcaps passed lantern at 10.30 P.M. (N.N.E.,
3; O. M. D.)

May 9th.--_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Sedge Warbler killed at 1 A.M.
(N.N.W., 2; fog.) _Eddystone_ L.H., a small flock of Golden Plovers
passing at 2.30 A.M. A few Warblers flying round the lantern. (W.
light; C. V.)

May 10th.--_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., four Sedge Warblers killed at 2.30 A.M.
A few Wheatears struck at 3.30 A.M. (N.W., 3; fog.) A Willow Warbler at
lantern at 9 P.M.; Wheatears at 10 P.M., one killed. (N.W., 3; B. C.)

May 11th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Swift at 2 P.M. (Light W.; clear.)

May 13th.--_Cumberland_, nine Dotterel seen on a Solway marsh.

May 14th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Cuckoo at 11 A.M. (Light N.; clear.)
_Merionethshire_, Nightjar arrived. (Light E.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., one
Cuckoo passed W. at 8 A.M., and two at 11 A.M. (N.E., 2; C. M.) A large
flock of Swallows passed to W. at noon.

May 15th.--_Langness_ L.H., a few Willow Warblers at 1 P.M. (Light
N.; clear.) Several Whimbrel for the last three days. _St Bees_ L.H.,
Some Whitethroats flying round lantern at 1.30 A.M. (N.N.E., 1; C. M.)
_River Dee_ L.V., Swallows passing the whole day, in ones and twos, all
flying N.E. (N.N.E., 1; O. V.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., several Whimbrel
flying round the island all day. (N.E., 4; misty.) _Carnarvon Bay_
L.V., a *Whitethroat killed at lantern. _South Bishop_ L.H., several
Wheatears; a few striking between 12 P.M. to 3 A.M. (E.N.E., 3; C. V.)
_Helwick_ L.V., a good many birds flying round the lantern during the
night; three *Sedge Warblers and one *Ringed Plover killed. (N.E, 1; O.
M.)

May 16th.--_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., the first "Sea Swallows" (_Sterna_)
appeared at 6 A.M. _Eddystone_ L.H., large numbers of small
birds--Wheatears and Warblers--striking lightly from 10 P.M. (? 15th)
to 3 A.M. (N.N.E, 3; C. G. V.)

May 18th.--_Merionethshire_, Spotted Flycatcher arrived. (Strong N.W.;
cold.) _South Bishop_ L.H., several Swallows all day. _Eddystone_ L.H.,
hundreds of Wheatears, Warblers, and Swallows from 12 P.M. to 3 A.M.;
many striking the lantern and lost over; three Warblers killed. (W. by
S., 3; C. D. M.)

May 19th.--_Cardigan Bay_ L.V., two Swifts going E. at 11 A.M.

May 20th.--_Cumberland_, twelve adult Richardson's Skuas flying past
Silloth from W. to E. (After N.W. gale.)

May 21st.--_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a large flock of Swifts passed W.S.W. at
5 P.M.

May 23d.--_Langness_ L.H., large number of Swifts at 11 A.M. (Light N.;
clear.) _Chickens Rock_ L.H., two Terns at 7 A.M. (N.W. strong breeze;
haze.) _Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., one Kingfisher at 8 A.M. (N.N.W., 3;
gloomy.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., four Swifts going N. at 2 P.M.

May 24th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Willow Warbler and two Whitethroats at
1 P.M. (Light N.W.; cloudy.) _South Bishop_ L.H., a few Swifts from 11
A.M. to 2 P.M.

May 25th.--_Cardigan_ L.V., six Martins going E.S.E. at 3 P.M.
_Eddystone_ L.H., flocks of Sandpipers, Wheatears, Warblers, and
Swallows from 9.30 to 12 P.M. One Sandpiper caught; many Warblers
killed and lost over. (E. by N., 4; O. R. M.)

May 26th.--_South Bishop_ L.H., large number of "Flycatchers" between
12 P.M. and 3 A.M.; many struck lantern, thirty killed. (E., 4; B. C.
M.)

May 27th.--_South Stack_ L.H., several "Siskins" from 10 P.M. till
midnight. _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., two Swifts at 7 P.M. _Eddystone_ L.H.,
hundreds of birds here from 11 P.M. until 3 A.M. (28th?). Flocks
passing, their call like Plovers; only Warblers close to lantern, and
none caught.

May 28th.--_South Bishop_ L.H., several "Flycatchers" from 12 P.M. to
3 A.M.; several struck, ten killed. (E.N.E., 2; C. M.) A Cuckoo and a
small bird at 7 P.M., left rock and flew east. _Godrevy_ L.H., a Cuckoo
struck the lantern. _Eddystone_ L.H.,--See under yesterday.

May 29th.--_Cardigan Bay_ L.V., two Swifts at 7.30 P.M. _Bishop's Rock_
L.H., a Turtle Dove and nine Swifts at 7 P.M. flying from W. to E.
(E.S.E., 5; C. M. R.)

May 30th.--_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Cuckoo captured at lantern at 10
P.M. _Eddystone_ L.H., flocks of Sandpipers passing lantern--a few
striking--from 12.15 till 3 A.M. Also hundreds of Wheatears, Warblers,
Swallows, and Swifts from 12.15 to 3 A.M. Great numbers of Warblers
killed against lantern and cowl, and lost over. (E. by N., 4; C. D. M.)


JUNE.

June 1st.--_Cumberland_, two Black Terns seen near Carlisle.
_Eddystone_ L.H., several Swallows, Swifts, and Warblers from 12 P.M.
until 3 A.M.; none caught. (E.S.E., 2; fog.)

June 2d.--_Merionethshire_, one Redstart. (Light E. wind.) Four
Whimbrel to N., very high up. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Swift killed at 10
P.M. (O. M. D.)

June 5th.--_Merionethshire_, the Red-backed Shrike not seen till this
date.

June 6th.--_River Dee_ L.V., five Swans flying N. at 10.30 A.M.; they
passed very close. (S.W., 1; B. C. V.) _Eddystone_ L.H., several
Swallows and Swifts from 5 P.M. to 6 A.M. (W.S.W., 3; C. R. M.)

June ----.--_Merionethshire_, about the middle of June several large
flocks of Mallard appeared on the river. One flock must have contained
nearly a hundred ducks.

June 17th.--_River Dee_ L.V.,, thousands of Sandpipers flying W. at 10
A.M. (S.E., 2; B. C. V.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Cuckoos passing S.W. at 10
A.M. _Bishop's Rock_ L.H., a Turtle Dove at 8 P.M. passing from W. to
E. (S.E., 5; B. M.)

June 21st.--_Selker_ L.V., flocks of Black Ducks at 9.15 P.M., and 7.30
P.M. (3, N.E.; B. C. V.) _Helwick_ L.V., twelve or sixteen "Mackerel
Cocks" (_?Puffinus anglorum_, from description sent) at 6 P.M. going W.

June 24th.--_Selker_ L.V., ten Black Ducks going N.W. at 8.30 P.M. (1,
N.N.E.; B. M.) _Eddystone_ L.H., many Swifts "tapping against the glass
from 10 P.M. till daylight." (E., 4; C. M. and C. V.)


AUGUST.

August 2d.--_Merionethshire_, several small flocks of Redshank.

August 3d.--_Merionethshire_, flocks of hundreds of Black-headed Gull.

August 4th.--_Menai_ L.H., flocks of Curlews about shore all day.
(Calm, clear.) _Merionethshire_, Cuckoo, one adult. Whimbrel appeared
again; saw one, and heard several. _Scarweather_ L.V., two Curlews at 8
P.M. _Bideford Bar_ L.H., about 200 Curlew on the sands at 8.30 P.M.;
also one Heron and thirty Ring Plovers.

August 7th.--_Merionethshire_, many flocks of Dunlin appeared. (Light
N.W.)

August 8th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Raven and one ♂ Wheatear at 4.30 A.M.
(Fresh S.W.; clear.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., two Storm Petrels at 3 P.M.
around the vessel. _Bideford Bar_ L.H., two hundred Guillemots at 11.30
A.M. going to sea, W.

August 10th.--_Langness_ L.H., several Wheatears at 10 A.M. (Fresh
N.W.; clear.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., one Cormorant at noon. (N.E., 6; B.
C. V.) One Wheatear on island at 7 P.M. (N.N.E., 6.) _Merionethshire_,
most of the Swifts left about this date.

August 11th.--_Langness_ L.H., four Oyster-catchers and a few Whimbrels
at 5 A.M. (Light N.; clear.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., one Lapwing on
island at 6 P.M. (N. by E., 5; B. C. V.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., four
Willow Warblers struck (two killed), eight to ten Sedge Warblers struck
(three killed), and three Whimbrel struck between 11 and 12 P.M. (N.E.,
2; C. M.) Four Whitethroats killed at 1 A.M. (August 12th).

August 12th.--_St Tudwal's_ L.H., the Puffins left the island.
_Cardigan Bay_ L.V., six Swifts and one Rook going S.E. at 8 P.M.

August 13th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., two Yellow Buntings on island at
4 P.M. (N.E., 6; C. M. R.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Land Rail killed at
2.40 A.M. (E.N.E., 2; C. G. P.) Two Sedge Warblers killed at 9.20 P.M.
(W.N.W, 3; C. G. M.)

August 14th.--_Langness_ L.H., large numbers of Wheatears all day.
(Light S.W.; clear.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Swift killed at 10 P.M.
(S.E., 1; B. C. M.)

August 15th.--_Langness_ L.H., large number of Swallows from 7 to 9
A.M. (Light S.; clear.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., two Swifts killed between
9 and 11 P.M. (E., 4; C. O.) _Bideford Bar_ L.H., large flocks of
Swallows from N. at noon. At 10 P.M. a Swallow struck lantern and was
caught. (S.E., 2; C. M.) _Eddystone_ L.H., "several Wheatears, Reed
Warblers, and Willow Wrens from 9 P.M. (? 14th) till 3 A.M. The first
autumn birds." A few caught. (N, 2; C. P. V.) _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H.,
a Wheatear killed at 12 P.M. (E., 4; O. M.)

August 16th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., six Wheatears, two Larks, and three
Meadow Pipits on lantern from 12 till 3 A.M. (E. strong airs; haze.)
_St Bees_ L.H., four Willow Warblers struck glass at midnight, but
were not killed. (S.E., 1; O. M.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., three Whimbrel
flying S. at 6 P.M. (Calm, clear.) *Willow Wren and *Sedge Warbler
killed against glass. _Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., two Yellow Buntings
at noon. (N.E., 3; B. C.) _South Stack_ L.H., several small birds
flying round the lantern, 11 P.M. to midnight; one caught. _Portland_
(_Low_) L.H., a Martin and a Common Wren killed in the early morning.
(E.N.E., 5; C. M. D.)

August 17th.--_Langness_ L.H., twelve Oyster-catchers at 6 A.M. (Light
E.; clear.) _Selker_ L.V., great many Meadow Pipits round light from
midnight to 4 A.M.; two killed. (1 S.S.W.; O. M. P.) _Morecambe Bay_
L.V., two Yellow Buntings flying about the vessel at noon. (E., 3; C.
M.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., several "Flycatchers" striking glass at 12.50
A.M.; two killed. (E.,4; misty.) One Cormorant at 3 P.M. (N.N.E., 5;
C. M.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Land Rail killed at 10 P.M. (N., 4: C. G.
P.) _Sevenstones_ L.V., two Storm Petrels at sunset. (N.N.W., 5; B. O.)
_Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., two "Wrens" struck at 3 A.M. (N., 5; C. M.)

August 18th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., two Wheatears flying on island at
6 P.M. One *Willow Wren and one *Sedge Warbler killed against lantern.
(N., 5; misty.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., ten *Willow Warblers, thirty-five
*Sedge Warblers, and fourteen *Spotted Flycatchers killed between 9
and 11 P.M. (N.E., 4; C. G. P.) Four Swifts killed at 1 A.M. (19th).
_Eddystone_ L.H. (_see_ 19th).

August 19th.--_St Bees_ L.H., several flocks of Starlings about. "We
are constantly visited by Wagtails after insects, which are attracted
by the light during the night, and which stay about during the day.
We have also a Robin occasionally." _Morecambe Bay_ L.V., several
"Mackerel Birds" about the station during the day. (N.; B. C.) _River
Dee_ L.V., flocks of Oyster-catchers passing the whole day. (N.E., 2;
B. C. V.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., a large flock of Swallows going S.W. at
9 A.M. _Caldy_ L.H., ten Swallows at 3 P.M. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., four
Swifts killed at 1 A.M. _Eddystone_ L.H., numbers of Wheatears, Willow
Wrens, Reed Warblers, and Whitethroats from 9 P.M. (18th) to 3 A.M.;
some striking and several caught. (N. by E., 4; C. P. V.)

August 20th.--_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., several flocks of Common Tern.
_Cardigan Bay_ L.V., several flocks of Swallows going S.W. at 9 A.M.
_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Land Rail killed at 10 P.M. (N.E., 3; C. M.)

August 23d.--_Eddystone_ L.H., a few small birds--Wheatears and
Warblers--flying around the lantern from 9.30 to 12 P.M. (E. by S., 3;
B. C. V.)

August 25th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., twelve *Willow Wrens killed at the
lantern.

August 26th.--_Cumberland_, five Greenshank shot at Silloth.

August 29th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., *Sedge Warbler killed.
_Sevenstones_ L.V., several Storm Petrels from 5 to 6.30 P.M. (S.S.W.,
4; B. O.)

August 30th.--_Cumberland_, two Widgeon seen, and one shot at Silloth.
_Langness_ L.H., several Swallows at 9 A.M. flying S.W. Solan Geese, a
few passing westward every day for the last week or so. A few Wheatears
every day. Large flock of Curlews and a few Whimbrel at 6 P.M. (Light
to fresh S.E. to S.; showery.) _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., six "Grey Plovers"
at noon going N.W. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., twelve or fifteen Swallows
passed S.S.W. at 7 A.M.


SEPTEMBER.

September 2d.--_Langness_ L.H., seven Sheldrakes at 4 P.M. (Strong S.;
rain.) Mr Clyne says these birds are seldom seen here.

September 4th.--_Langness_ L.H., a few Wheatears at 10 A.M. (Light S.;
clear.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Wheatears flying round the lantern all
night; two killed. (W., 6; C. G. M.)

September 7th.--_Cumberland_, Grey Plover arrived at Silloth; many from
7th to 15th.

September 9th.--_Cumberland_, Knot, fifteen at Allonby; Turnstone,
some; Whimbrel, some; Bar-tailed Godwit (young). _Eddystone_ L.H.,
several Wheatears from 9.30 till 12 P.M. (W.S.W., 5; O. D. M.)

September 10th.--_Cumberland_, one Great Snipe shot at Carlisle.

September 11th.--_Cumberland_, twenty Curlew Sandpiper seen; eleven
shot, all young birds. _Eddystone_ L.H., a few Wheatears from 8 to 9
P.M. (W. by S., 4; C. P. M.)

September 12th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., one Lapwing on island at 11.30
A.M. (N.W., 5; B. C. V.) _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., several Pewitt flying
around the lantern at 11 P.M. (N.N.W., 5; C. V.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a
Land Rail killed at 10 P.M. (N., 3; C. M. R.)

September 13th.--_Langness_ L.H., large number of Meadow Pipits at 6
A.M. _Eddystone_ L.H., a Willow Warbler killed at 2 A.M. (N.W. by N.,
4; C. P. V.) _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., a "Wren" struck at 10.30 P.M.
(N., 4; B. C. V.)

September 14th.--_Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., two "Flycatchers" at lantern
at 1 A.M. (N.N.W, 5; C. V.)

September 15th.--_Cumberland_, Jack Snipe, first seen at Allonby.
_South Bishop_ L.H., several flocks of Swallows flying W. from 6 A.M.
till noon. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., four Whitethroats killed at 9 P.M.
(Calm; B. C.) _Bull Point_ L.H., many Swallows passing W. all day. (W.;
P.)

September 17th.--_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a very large flock of Starlings
flying round the lantern at 11 P.M. A Nightjar killed at 11.30 P.M.
(E.N.E., 3; O. M. P.) _Longships_ L.H., "several birds" from 2 A.M. to
daylight, (W.N.W. to N.N.E., 3; F. R.) _Eddystone_ L.H., Wheatears,
several struck from 3 to 5 A.M. (S.W. by S., 4; O. R. M.) A *Grey
Wagtail caught at 7.30 P.M. (N., 2; C. O. M.) Several Wheatears,
Whitethroats, Warblers, also a Blackbird and a Thrush, passing the
lantern from 7.30 to 9.30 P.M.; two Whitethroats caught. (N.E. by E.,
4; C. G. M.)

September 18th.--_Cumberland_, Grey Geese (spe. inc.) passing along
Solway at Allonby and Flimby. _Skerries Rock_ L.H., one *Turnstone
struck lantern and killed at 4 A.M. One Wagtail on island at 9 A.M.
One Thrush and four Wheatears on island at 9.30 A.M. (E., 4; B. M.)
_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., flocks of Starlings and Common Linnets, and a few
Skylarks, passed S.W. during the morning.

September 19th.--_Sevenstones_ L.V., one Swallow at 6 P.M. flew on
board to rest. (E.N.E., 4; clear.) _Eddystone_ L.H., a few small
birds--Whitethroats and Warblers--from 3 to 5 A.M. (E.N.E., 3; B. C. V.)

September 20th.--_Langness_ L.H., one female Blackbird at 11 P.M. on
lantern. One Robin at 3 P.M. (Light E.; clear.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H.,
four Carrion Crows on island at 3.30 P.M. (Calm; B. V.) _Nash_ (_E._)
L.H., forty-two *Sedge Warblers killed at lantern between 11 and 12
P.M. (E., 3; B. C. M.) _Longships_ L.H., a party of Guillemots passing
S. _Eddystone_ L.H., a few Wheatears and Whitethroats at 2.30 A.M.; two
caught. (N. by E., 1; B. C. V.) Whitethroats and Warblers from 7.20 to
9.30 P.M. (N. by E., 1; B. C. M.) _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., "Flycatchers
and Wrens" striking at 12.40 A.M. (E., 5; B. C. V.)

September 21st.--_Langness_ L.H., two Thrushes, one Lark, and one
Spotted Flycatcher on lantern at 2 A.M.; other birds striking. (Light
S.; haze.) _Selker_ L.V., one Lark found dead on deck. (4, S. by W.;
O., misty.) One "Willy the Wisp" rested on deck at 11.30 A.M., then
flew to E. One Thrush flying round ship from 8 to 12 P.M. (Misty.)
_Skerries Rock_ L.H., several Flycatchers and Crested Wrens on island,
and one Blackcap, at 9 A.M. (E.S.E., 4; C. M.) One Skylark struck
lantern, but not killed, at 11 P.M. _South Bishop_ L.H., a flock of
Swallows flying E. at 9 A.M. A Sparrow Hawk flying round the rock at
10 A.M. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., two Willow Warblers killed at 10.30 A.M.
A large flock of Titlarks passed S.E. at 11 A.M. A small flock of
Linnets passed S.E. at 4 P.M. (E.S.E., 3.) _Longships_ L.H., a few
Puffins passing S. _Eddystone_ L.H., Wheatears and Whitethroats from 2
to 5 A.M. (E.N.E., 4; B. V.) Numbers of birds at the lantern from 9 to
12 P.M.--*Whitethroats, *Tree Pipits, *Dunlins, *Sedge Warblers, and
*Wheatears killed; many lost over. (E.N.E., 3; O. V.)

September 22d.--_Langness_ L.H., several Swallows and Pied Wagtails at
8 A.M. (Light S.E.; haze.) _Selker_ L.V., a few Thrushes flying round
the ship at 3.30 A.M. A Blackbird and a Lark flying round ship at 4
A.M. (Misty.) Found a "Flycatcher" dead on deck at 6.30 A.M. One Wren
flying round ship at 7.40 A.M. (3, S.S.W.; misty.) _Skerries Rock_
L.H., several Skylarks, Flycatchers, and Thrushes flying round island
all day; also two Robins and four Swallows. (S. by E., 1; C. M.) _South
Bishop_ L.H., a large flock of Swallows at 11 A.M.

September 23d.--_Menai_ L.H., a quantity of Linnets, four Wagtails,
one Robin, and one *Blackcap at 6.30 A.M. Flocks of Sparrows and
Starlings at 8 A.M. One Blackcap killed. (E. by S., 3; very misty.)
_Skerries Rock_ L.H., two Flycatchers struck, but not killed, at
2.30 A.M. One Skylark settled on gallery at 2.45 A.M. One Chaffinch
on island at 10 A.M. (E., 4; misty.) _Merionethshire_, Woodcock, one
shot. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., four Blackbirds at lantern at 10 P.M.; one
killed. _Breaksea_ L.V., several Chaffinches, Wagtails, Linnets, and
other small birds from 6 to 8 A.M. (E.N.E., 4; B. M.) _Eddystone_
L.H., Ring Ouzels, Blackbirds, Thrushes, Wheatears, Warblers, and
Whitethroats in large numbers from 10 to 12 P.M.; many killed--six Ring
Ouzels, thirteen Wheatears, two Whitethroats, two "Warblers," and one
Thrush--and many lost over. (E.N.E., 4; C. M.)

September 24th.--_Cumberland_, Barnacle Goose arrived at Rockliffe.
_Selker_ L.V., one Thrush rested on rail for a short time at 5.30
A.M., and then flew off. (3, S.S.W.; misty.) _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.,
a Water Hen caught at 4 A.M. (S.E., 2; B. M.) _South Bishop_ L.H.,
companies of Swallows flying E. all day. _Breaksea_ L.V., Chaffinches
and other small birds passing E. all day. (E., 3.) _Eddystone_
L.H., Ring Ouzels, Blackbirds, Thrushes, Wheatears, Warblers, and
Whitethroats killed and caught against the lantern, from 12 P.M. to
4.30 A.M.; many lost over. (E.N.E., 3; B. C. M.)

September 25th.--_Selker_ L.V., a few Thrushes flying about lantern at
2.30 A.M. (Calm; misty.) One Blackbird going S. at 5.30 A.M. (3, N.W.;
B. M.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., one Skylark killed at 3 A.M. _Carnarvon
Bay_ L.V., about 200 Swallows flying S.S.E., high, at 9 A.M. (W.S.W.,
3; M.) _St Tudwal's_ L.H., two Wild Geese flying W. at 6.30 A.M.
_Eddystone_ L.H., a Ring Ouzel at the lantern at 11 P.M. (W.N.W., 2; B.
C. M.) _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., Martins, Linnets, and Wrens at 12.30
P.M. going W.

September 26th.--_Eddystone_ L.H., a few small birds from 1 to 3.30
A.M. A Whitethroat caught. (W.N.W., 3; C. M.)

September 27th.--_Cumberland_, a young Black-tailed Godwit shot near
Silloth.

September 28th.--_Cumberland_, one Red-necked Phalarope at Rockliffe.
_Chickens Rock_ L.H., Larks, Thrushes, Wheatears, and two Goldcrests
flying in rays of lantern all night; a few killed. (Light N.E.; clear
and showers.)

September 30th.--_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., forty to fifty Swallows passed
S. at 7 A.M. Thirty to forty Skylarks passed S.W. at 8 A.M. (E., 3.)
_Breaksea_ L.V., a Wagtail at 10.30 A.M. _Eddystone_ L.H., large flocks
of Grey Plovers, Lapwings, Ring Ouzels, Skylarks, *Meadow Pipits, *Pied
and *Yellow Wagtails, and Warblers from 3 to 5 A.M. (E., 2; C. P. M.)


OCTOBER.

October 4th.--_South Bishop_ L.H., two Crows alighted on the rock at
11 A.M. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Goldcrest killed at 1 A.M. (K, 1.) _Wolf
Rock_ L.V., a pair of Yellow Buntings at 10 A.M. (N.E., 3.)

October 5th.--_Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., scores of Larks flying W. at
9 A.M. (N., 4; overcast.) _Eddystone_ L.H., several small birds passing
from 3 to 6 A.M. (N.E. by N., 4; C. G. V.) Numbers of birds--Ring
Ouzels, Wheatears, Whitethroats, and Warblers--passing from 5 to 12
P.M. (N.E., 3; C. G. M.)

October 6th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., several Blackbirds on island at 9
A.M. Small flocks of Thrushes and Skylarks on island from 7 to 9 A.M.
About 100 Starlings on island at 8.30 A.M. (N., 4; C. V.) _Cardigan
Bay_ L.V., three Martins roosted for the night on the vessel. _Nash_
(_E._) L.H., a Goldcrest killed at 3 A.M. (E., 2; O. M.) _Breaksea_
L.V., Lapwings and a few "Flycatchers" from 9 P.M. to midnight.
(N.E., 1; O. M.) _Wolf Rock_ L.V., six Skylarks struck at 8 P.M. Two
Goldcrests at the lantern at 11 P.M. _Bishop's Rock_ L.H., several
hundred of Titlarks, unmixed with other species, at the lantern
all night and until daylight (7th); six killed. (N. to E.; cloudy,
misty.) _Eddystone_ L.H., several birds--Ring Ouzels, Thrushes,
Starlings--passing from 3 to 7 A.M. One Wren and one Whitethroat
caught. (N.E., 3; C. G. M.)

October 7th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Swallow at 11.30 A.M. Two or three
Choughs passing W. at 12 noon. (Light N.; clear.) _Skerries Rock_
L.H., large flocks of Larks at 9 A.M. flying N.W. Four Crows at 7 A.M.
flying N.W. Four Lapwings on island at 5.45 P.M. (W.N.W., 4; C. G.
V.) _Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., great number of Larks all the morning
going W. (N.W., 4; overcast.) _Longships_ L.H., a few Starlings and
Larks at 10 P.M. (N.E., 1; O. V.) _Eddystone_ L.H., small birds around
the lantern all night--among others, Titlarks and Wheatears. Towards
morning numbers of Larks and Thrushes passing. (Light and variable; O.
M.)

October 8th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., several flocks of Linnets at 8
A.M. flying N.W. One Chaffinch on island at 2.30 P.M. (N.E., 5; C.
G. V.) _South Stack_ L.H., Starlings, Larks, Finches, and Linnets
in continuous flocks to N.W. from 7 A.M. till noon. _Eddystone_
L.H., small birds crossing E. in small flocks all day--chiefly
Linnets. (Light and variable; gloomy and misty.) Birds crossing all
night--Lapwings, Thrushes, Ouzels, Storm Petrels; also several small
birds, a Robin amongst them, busy eating moths, of which there were
scores against the glazing. A Lark and a Ring Ouzel caught. (E.N.E.,
light; C. M. and C. V.)

October 9th.--_Selker_ L.V., eleven Larks at 8.45 P.M. (3, E.N.E.; C.
V.) _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., many flocks of Skylarks going E. all day.
_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., one Song Thrush killed at 9 P.M. (N.E., 2; C.
M.) Twelve to sixteen "Common Tern" struck the lantern at 9 P.M.;
one killed. Five to nine Skylarks struck at 10 P.M.; three killed.
(N.E., 2; C. M.) _Breaksea_ L.V., a *Thrush killed at 10.40 P.M. A few
Flycatchers flying round the lantern from 8 to 12 P.M. _Eddystone_
L.H., as yesterday (_q.v._), _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., five or six
Blackcaps during the morning. (E., 3; C. M.)

October 10th.--_Cumberland_, Long-tailed Duck, a female shot at
Silloth; about twenty killed subsequently, nearly all females. Redwing
and Fieldfare arrived at Carlisle. _Longships_ L.H., hundreds of
Guillemots and Puffins passing S. all day. (N., 7; squalls, hail, rain.)

October 11th.--_Wolf Rock_ L.V., six Sea Swallows (_Sterna_) at 4 P.M.
(N.N.E., 5.)

October 14th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., Larks, Blackbirds, Thrushes,
Wheatears, and other small birds all night; great many killed. (N.E.,
strong breeze; showers.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., eleven Thrushes killed at
1 P.M. (N., 5; C. M.)

October 15th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., flock of Linnets at 7.10 A.M.
going N.W. Flock of Larks at 7.30 A.M. going N.W, (N., 3; clear.)
_Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., scores of Black Crows going E. at 7.30 A.M.
Hundreds of Larks from 10 A.M., and through the greater part of the
day, all flying E. (N.N.E., 5; B. C.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., large flocks
of Skylarks at 7 A.M. Large flocks of Grey Linnets at 8 A.M. _Breaksea_
L.V., small birds passing in forenoon. _Longships_ L.H., scores of
Puffins passing S. all day. (N.E., 4.)

October 16th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., great number of Larks, Blackbirds,
Thrushes, Wheatears, and other small birds flying in rays of lantern
from 3 A.M. till daylight. (W. fresh breeze; clear.) _River Dee_ L.V.,
large flocks of Oyster-catchers passing the whole day. (N.W., 3; B. C.
V.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., Golden-crested Wren against lantern-glass
at 4.15 A.M. Large number of Starlings from midnight to 6 A.M.; about
two dozen killed against glass. Large flock of Ducks going E. at 10.30
A.M. Large flock of Linnets; several Larks and Blackbirds flying on
island at 10.30 A.M. (N.N.W., 3; clear.) _Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H.,
three Starlings striking glass at 3.30 A.M.; none killed. (N.W., 2;
overcast.) Starlings flying round lantern at 6 A.M. (N.W., 3; cloudy.)
_South Stack_ L.H., a great number of Starlings and a few Larks from 4
to 5 A.M. around the lantern; twenty-five killed. _Cardigan Bay_ L.V.,
a flock of Linnets and Skylarks going S.E, at 8 A.M. _South Bishop_
L.H., a Wren at 10 A.M., a Goldcrest at 11 A.M., and one Swallow
at noon. _Breaksea_ L.V., many Larks and a few Finches passing in
forenoon. _Longships_ L.H., a good many Larks, Starlings, Goldcrests,
and Chaffinches all night; two "Wrens" and a Lark killed. (E.N.E., 2;
B. C.) _Wolf Rock_ L.V., three Greenfinches passing S.E. at 3 P.M.
_Eddystone_ L.H., birds crossing towards morning--Starlings and small
birds. Several Finches on the rock all day. (N.E., 3; B. V.) Large
numbers of birds passing from 7 P.M. to 3 A.M. (17th)--Missel Thrushes,
Redwings, Starlings, Larks, Finches, and one Goldcrest. Forty-four
birds killed., _viz._, twenty-five Starlings, four Redwings, eleven
Larks, and one Missel Thrush. (N.E. by N., 2; C. V.)

October 17th.--_Langness_ L.H., one male Blackbird struck lantern and
killed at 7 P.M. (Light W.; clear.) _Bahama Bank_ L.V., number of Larks
flying W. at 3 P.M. (N.W. by W., 4; B. C.) _River Dee_ L.V., large
flocks of Oyster-catchers passing all day, flying N.E. (N.W., 2; B. C.
V.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., one *Chaffinch killed against lantern-glass
at 1.30 A.M. One Chaffinch killed at 2.15 A.M. One Lark struck glass,
but not killed, at 8 P.M. One Thrush and one Golden-crested Wren killed
against glass at 10.30 P.M. (W.N.W., 4; clear.) _Holyhead Breakwater_
L.H., three Starlings at 9 P.M. (N., 2; O.) Flock of Larks and Linnets
going E. at 9 A.M. _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., great numbers of birds passing
and repassing; flocks of Skylarks and Linnets from 7 A.M. till noon.
_Eddystone_ L.H., for movement from 12 P.M. to 3 A.M., see under 16th.
One Redstart [? Black] on the rock all day.

October 18th.--_Morecambe Bay_ L.V., one small bird was seen; it was so
tired it was unable to reach the ship, and fell in the water and was
killed by Kittiwakes. (W.N.W., 4; B. C. V.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., large
flocks of Starlings, Linnets, and Larks from 6.30 to 9 A.M., all going
N.W. (N.W., 4; clear.) _Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., hundreds of Larks
and Linnets seen from daylight up to noon, going S., from this date up
to October 27th. One Linnet killed striking at 9 P.M. (W.N.W., 3; O.)
_Godrevy_ L.H., four Swallows at 1 P.M.

October 19th.--_Morecambe Bay_ L.V., five "Mackerel Birds" at 11 A.M.
(W., 4; C. V.) _River Dee_ L.V., large flocks of Oyster-catchers from
9 A.M. till noon, flying S.W. (W.N.W., 3; B. C. V.) _Skerries Rock_
L.H., Thrushes and Starlings flying round lantern at 4.50 A.M. (W,
4; clear.) _Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., Larks at 10 A.M. going S.E.
(W.S.W., 4; cloudy.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H. Gold crests killed at 3.10 A.M.
(W.N.W, 3; C. M.) _Eddystone_ L.H.; several Larks from 9 to 11 P.M.;
three killed. (Light and variable; B. C. V.) _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., a
Goldcrest caught at lantern at 9.45 P.M. (W, 3; B. C. M.)

October 20th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Redwing caught on lantern at 3 A.M.
(Light S.W.; clear.) One Swallow flying S.W. at 11 A.M. _Chickens Rock_
L.H., three Black Swallows flying S.S.E. at 1 P.M. (N.W. fresh breeze;
haze.) _River Dee_ L.V., very large flock of birds, species not known,
flying S.W. at 9.30 A.M. (N.N.W., 3; B. C. V.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H.,
Thrushes, Larks, and Chaffinches round light from 8 P.M. to 4 A.M.;
seven killed against glass. (N., 4; clear.) _Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H.,
great many Larks all day going E. _South Stack_ L.H., a Thrush and a
Lark caught at lantern at 2.30 A.M. _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., hundreds
of Thrushes and Blackbirds going E. at intervals; six killed. (N.,
4; B. C. V.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., two *Reed Buntings killed at 1.30
A.M. (N.N.W, 2; C. M.) _Eddystone_ L.H., Lapwings, Missel Thrushes,
Ring Ouzels, Fieldfares, Thrushes, Redwings, Starlings, Larks, Storm
Petrels, and Sanderlings (? Dunlins), from 8 P.M. to 5 A.M. (21st). Two
Ring Ouzels, three Thrushes, two Redwings, seven Starlings, four Larks,
and one Sanderling killed; many striking. The Lapwings and Fieldfares
did not approach the glazing. One Missel Thrush did, but was not
caught. A lesser Redpole caught. (N.E. to E.N.E., 3; C. V.)

October 21st.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., Thrushes, Blackbirds, Larks,
Starlings, and Chaffinches, numbers killed, from 3 A.M. till morning.
(E. strong breeze; haze.) _South Stack_ L.H., a few Larks from 9 P.M.
till midnight; several killed. _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., very large flocks
of Thrushes and Blackbirds going E. at intervals; two killed. (N.E, 3;
B. C. V.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., flocks of Starlings, Larks, and other
small birds going S.E. and N. through the day. _South Bishop_ L.H.,
hundreds of birds of all sorts flying around the lantern from 11 P.M.
to 2.30 A.M. (22d); 272 killed, _viz._, "Larks," 146; Starlings, 64;
Blackbirds, 38 (caught three old males); Thrushes, 24. Several birds
seen on the rock at daylight with broken wings. (S.E., 4; O. M.)
_Scarweather_ L.V., one Chaffinch, on deck at 3 P.M. _Nash_ (_E._)
L.H., a *Common Wren killed at 2.40 A.M. Three Skylarks killed at 3
A.M. (N.E., 2; B. C. M.) _Bull Point_ L.H., a Thrush found dead at
daylight. _Godrevy_ L.H., Starlings, Larks, Blackbirds, and Thrushes; a
good many killed and caught. (Light, misty.) _Longships_ L.H., scores
of Larks, Starlings, and Goldcrests all night; a good many striking
and lost over; caught twenty-six Starlings and eleven Larks. (E., 2;
C. M.) _Eddystone_ L.H., an important movement from 8 P.M. (20th) to
5 A.M. this morning. For details see under yesterday. From 10 P.M.
to 4 A.M. (22d), "Blackbirds, Missel Thrushes, Fieldfares, Thrushes,
Redwings, Starlings, Larks, Finches, Goldcrests, Robins, and several
small Warblers, crossing by hundreds." From 100 to 150 struck the
lantern; eighty-two killed, _viz._, one Blackbird (♀ or juv.), one
Fieldfare, three Thrushes, seven Redwings, thirty-six Starlings, thirty
Larks, one Grey Wagtail, and three Goldcrests. (E. to S.E., 3; blue sky
occasionally, but misty, C. V.)

October 22d.--_Langness_ L.H., large flock of Larks and a few Tree
Sparrows at 8 A.M. (Light S.W.; clear.) _Chickens Rock_, L.H., large
flock of Thrushes, Blackbirds, Larks, Starlings, and Chaffinches,
flying in rays of lantern from 3.30 A.M. till morning. (W.S.W. strong
breeze; haze.) _Bahama Bank_ L.V., ten Crows flying W. at 9.40 A.M.
(W.; C.) _Selker_ L.V., Larks and Thrushes flying round lantern at
4.3 A.M. Eight Larks at 8.30 A.M. Flock of Larks at 10.30 A.M. One
Greenfinch came on deck at 11.20. (4, W.; C. G.) _River Dee_ L.V., a
few Thrushes, Larks, and Chaffinches about the light during the night;
one Thrush killed; birds left at daybreak. (S.E., 2; O. M.) _Skerries
Rock_ L.H., large flocks of Linnets, Chaffinches, Starlings, and
Larks going N.W. all day. (S.S.W., 5; cloudy.) _South Stack_ L.H.,
twenty-four Starlings, seven Blackbirds, and six Larks, between 3 A.M.
and daylight. _South Bishop_ L.H. (see entry under yesterday). _Caldy_
L.H., a Lark at the lantern at 3 A.M. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Starlings.
_Godrevy_ L.H., Starlings, Larks, Blackbirds, and Thrushes; a good
many killed and caught. (Light, misty.) _Eddystone_ L.H., an important
movement from 10 P.M. (21st) until 4 A.M. this morning. For details,
see yesterday. _Shambles_ L.V., Chaffinches and "Reed Birds" all day.
(S.E., 4; mist, rain.)

October 23d.--_Langness_ L.H., one male Blackbird and one Redwing
struck lantern and killed between 1 and 4 A.M. Large flock of Green
Linnets at 10.30 A.M. (Fresh S.W.; clear.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H.,
several Blackbirds and Starlings killed against glass from 11.30 P.M.
to 5.30 A.M. One Heron, one Teal, and one Woodcock settled on island
at 9 P.M. (W., 5; cloudy.) _Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H., Starlings at 2
A.M. flying round lantern. (W.S.W., 5; overcast.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V.,
several flocks of Starlings and other small birds throughout the day
going S.E. _Helwick_ L.V., a good many Greenfinches around the lantern
during the night. (N.W. and W., 4; B. C. M.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H.,
about thirty Starlings at 9 P.M.; five killed. (N.N.W., 3; C. G. P.)
_Longships_ L.H., scores of Puffins passing S. most of the day. (S.S.W.
to N.W., 3.) _Eddystone_ L.H., Starlings from 7 to 8.30 P.M.; several
struck. (W.N.W., 3; B. C. V.)

October 25th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., flocks of Linnets and Chaffinches
going N.W. from 9 A.M. to noon. Two Blackbirds, male and female, killed
at glass at midnight. (W.S.W., 4; clear.) _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., several
Blackbirds and Finches flying S.E., low, during the forenoon. (N.E.,
7.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Wren killed at 3.30 A.M. (N.E., 4; B. C. M.)
A large flock of Lapwings passed W.N.W. at 7 A.M.; large flocks of
Linnets passed to W. between 7 and 8 A.M.; two flocks of Fieldfares
passed W. at 9 and 9.30 A.M. (E.N.E., 4; C. G.) _Eddystone_ L.H., 25th
(P.M.) and 26th (A.M.), birds crossing all night; one or two small
species coming to lantern. (Wind light and variable; visibility.)

October 26th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., about a dozen Blackbirds and
Starlings killed at midnight. (W.S.W., 4; clear.) _South Stack_ L.H., a
few Starlings and Thrushes from 11 P.M. to 4 A.M. (27th). _Nash_ (_E._)
L.H., two Ravens passed W. at 3.30 P.M. Hundreds of Crows, Rooks, and
Jackdaws passing inland at 3.30 P.M. (S.W., 4; C. G. U.) Large flocks
of Skylarks passing inland at 4 P.M. _Eddystone_ L.H., birds crossing
in the early morning and last night (_q.v._).

October 27th.--_South Bishop_ L.H., several companies of Linnets flying
N.W. all day. _Helwick_ L.V., one Woodcock killed at 2.30 am. (S.W., 7;
C. Q. P.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Storm Petrel killed at 4 A.M. (S.W.,
3; O. M. R.) A hundred or more Common Gulls passing inland at 10 A.M.
(W.S.W., 3; O. M. R.) _Eddystone_ L.H., a Brambling caught at 2.30 A.M.
(S.S.W., 6; C. V.)

October 28th.--_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., several hundreds of Larks and
Finches flying low to S.E. in the forenoon. (W., 6; B. C. V.)

October 29th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., large flocks of Starlings and
Larks going N.W. all day. (W., 5; clear.) _Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H.,
thousands of Larks going at 10.30 A.M. (W., 5; B. C. M.) _Carnarvon
Bay_ L.V., several dozens of Skylarks going S.E. during forenoon. (W.,
5; B. C. V.)

October 30th.--_Bahama Bank_ L.V., twenty-six Larks flying W.N.W. at
11.25 A.M. (W.; B. C.) _Morecambe Bay_ L.V., several House Sparrows,
from noon till 2 P.M., resting about the ship; came from N.N.W. (W. by
N., 6.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., large flocks of Starlings and Larks going
N.W. all day. (W., 5; clear.) A *Wren killed at 1 A.M. _Nash_ (_E._)
L.H., two or three hundred Gulls and Crows passing inland all day.[9]
(W. to N.N.W., 6; C. Q. P. H.)

[Footnote 9: Mr Nicholas says:--"When Gulls, Crows, and Rooks pass
inland and alight in the fields all day long, it always foretells rough
weather."]

October 31st.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., Starlings, Crows, and Linnets
settled on island during the whole day. (W. by S., 6; B. C. V.) _Nash_
(_E._) L.H., Gulls, Rooks, Jackdaws, and Starlings passing inland all
day. (N.W. to N., 5; B. C. P.)


NOVEMBER

November 1st.--_Langness_ L.H., a few Thrushes at 11 A.M. (Gale, S.E.;
rain.) Also a few Blackbirds at 9 A.M. _Selker_ L.V., flock of Skylarks
at 9.30 and 11.20 A.M. _Morecambe Bay_ L.V., two Starlings rested on
the ship at 3 P.M. (S. by W., 8; O. Q.) One Blackbird and one Chaffinch
rested on ship at 3.45 P.M. _Skerries Rock_ L.H., Starlings, Snipe,
and Chaffinch flying about island at noon. (S.W., 10; C. R. M.) _South
Stack_ L.H., Starlings, Larks, Finches, and Linnets from daylight to
noon. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Crows, Gulls, Rooks, and Starlings passing
inland all day. (S. to S.W., 8; C. Q. R.)

November 2d.--_Selker_ L.V., five Greenfinches at 7.45 A.M. One
Chaffinch flying round ship all night. (6, S. by E.; C. Q. P.)
_Morecambe Bay_ L.V., one Greenfinch caught on deck at 11 A.M. (W.S.W.,
4; B. C. V.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., great numbers of Starlings, Larks,
Chaffinches, and Blackbirds all day. (S.W., 5; clear.) _Carnarvon Bay_
L.V., ten Blackbirds and eight Skylarks at 11 A.M., flying to S.E.
_Cardigan Bay_ L.V., many small flocks of Starlings and Larks going
S.E. and N.W. _South Bishop_ L.H., thirty or forty Larks flying round
the rock at 7 A.M. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Linnets and Rooks passing N.
at 8 A.M. (W.S.W., 7; C. Q. P. R.) Gulls, Crows, Rooks, and Starlings
passing inland from 7 A.M. to 3 P.M.

November 5th.--_Bahama Bank_ L.V., number of Thrushes and Larks flying
round lantern from 9 P.M. till 11 P.M.; one Lark killed. (S.S.E., 6;
O. M. K.) _Selker_ L.V., Larks, Thrushes, and Starlings at midnight;
three Thrushes killed. (4, S.S.E.; O. M.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H.,
Starlings, Chaffinches, and Linnets going N.W. from 8 A.M. to noon.
Two Goldfinches flying about island at 9.30 A.M.; "very rare." (N.W,
5; B. C. V.) _South Bishop_ L.H., companies of Larks passing from 8.30
A.M. until noon. _Helwick_ L.V., a good many Thrushes during the night;
one killed. (W.S.W., 5; Q. M.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Starlings, Larks,
Fieldfares, and Lapwings; a good many passing to N.W. from 7 to 9 A.M.
(N.N.W., 5; C. G.) _Burnham_ L.H., flocks of Lapwings flying S. all day.

November 6th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., great quantity of Starlings,
Chaffinches, and Sparrows all day going about the island. "We never
noticed Sparrows here before." (E.S.E., 3; B. C. V.) _Holyhead_ L.H.,
seven Crows going E. in the morning. _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., hundreds of
Larks and Finches going E. in the forenoon. _South Bishop_ L.H., about
200 Larks at 10.30 A.M. flying N.W. A flock of Larks going E. at 4.30
P.M. Seven Greenfinches struck the lantern at 7.15 P.M. _Helwick_ L.V.,
two to three dozen Larks going E. at 9.30 A.M. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a
good many birds flying around the lantern, but only one Skylark killed
at 9.30 P.M. (E.S.E., 4; O. M. R.) _Eddystone_ L.H., a Redwing and a
Starling struck at 8 P.M. (E.S.E., 6; B. C.)

November 7th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., Short-Eared Owl shot on island.
Snipe on island at 2.45 P.M. Large flock of Starlings settled on island
at 7.30 A.M. (E.S.E, 4, to E.N.E., 7; clear to misty, rain.) _Carnarvon
Bay_ L.V., Starlings and Finches, "without number," going S.E. all day.
_Cardigan Bay_ L.V., sixty or seventy "Black Crows" going W. at 10
A.M. _South Bishop_ L.H., several small flocks of Linnets during the
morning; ten Crows at 10.30 A.M. going E.; several Blackbirds on the
rock; several birds flying round the lantern from 7 to 9.30 P.M.; a
good number struck, and one Blackbird (young), one Thrush, one Redwing,
and two Starlings killed. (E.N.E., 4; B. C. M.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H.,
a *male Chaffinch killed at 7 P.M.; six Starlings killed at 8 P.M.;
two Snipe struck at 8 P.M.; six *Redwings killed at 8.30 P.M.; and
eleven *Common Thrushes killed between 9.20 and 10 P.M. (N.E. to E.,
5; C. M. R.) _Breaksea_ L.V., two *Thrushes and a Lark killed at 7.45
P.M. (N.E., 5; O. M. R.) _Eddystone_ L.H., Golden Plover, Lapwings,
Thrushes, Blackbirds, Redwings, and Larks crossing in large numbers
from 6 to 10 P.M.; chiefly Thrushes. Eight Thrushes, five Redwings, and
three Larks killed, striking windward side of lantern; chiefly birds of
the year. (N. by E., 5; C. P. M.)

November 8th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., number of Rooks coming over from
Ireland, seemed much exhausted, during the day. (E. strong breeze;
haze.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., *Jacksnipe shot on island at 2.30 P.M.
A female *Golden-eye killed against glass at 9.15 P.M. (E., 6 to 7;
misty, to C. G. M.) _South Bishop_ L.H., Linnets and Starlings all
day flying E.; five "Crows" at 9.30 A.M. _Helwick_ L.V., two hundred
Larks at 8.30 A.M. going S.E. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., two Goldcrests, one
killed, at 9.40 P.M. (E., 3; B. C. M.) _Bull Point_ L.H., two Thrushes
found dead at foot of tower at daylight. _Eddystone_ L.H., hundreds
of birds--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, Fieldfares, Starlings,
and Larks, from 7 P.M. to 3 A.M. (9th). Caught eighteen Thrushes,
sixty-seven Redwings, three Fieldfares, three Blackbirds, twenty-three
Starlings, and one Lark; many scores killed and lost over. Four Tree
Sparrows seen. (E.N.E., 5; O. M. R.) _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., a Lapwing
at lantern at 10 P.M. (E., 4; C. M.)

November 9th.--_Langness_ L.H., one female Blackbird killed on lantern.
A few Fieldfares and Redwings from 10 P.M. to daybreak; one Fieldfare,
one Redwing, and one Thrush found dead. (Light E.; haze.) _Chickens
Rock_ L.H., large flock of Blackbirds, Thrushes, Fieldfares, Larks,
Linnets, and two Goldcrests flying round the lantern all night; a few
struck. (E.N.E. strong breeze; haze.) _South Bishop_ L.H., Blackbirds,
Thrushes, and Larks passing singly all day to E. A few birds flying
round the lantern during the night; two Larks and two Thrushes killed.
(N.E.; C. V.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Woodcock at 7 P.M.; four Snipe from
7 to 7.30 P.M.; a small flock of Lapwings at 8 P.M.; all flying round
the lantern. Four *Grey Plover killed at 9 P.M.; eleven Starlings
killed at 9.30 P.M. (E.N.E., 2; O. M. R.) _Breaksea_ L.V., Larks and
Starlings at lantern from 6 to 12 P.M. (N.E., 4; O. M. R.) _Longships_
L.H., Chaffinches and Goldcrests at lantern at 7 P.M. (E.N.E., 3;
cloudy, misty.) _Eddystone_ L.H., a few Thrushes, Redwings, Larks, and
Starlings from 10 P.M. to 6 A.M. (10th). A Blackbird, one Starling, two
Thrushes, one Redwing, killed; a few lost over. (N. by E., 3; C. D. V.)
_Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., a Chaffinch caught at 10.20 P.M. (N.N.E., 4;
C. M.)

November 10th.--_Langness_ L.H., fourteen Lapwings flying S. at 11
A.M. One Robin at 3 P.M. One female Blackbird on lantern at 8 P.M.
(Light N.E.; haze.) _Chickens Rock_ L.H., very great flock of Thrushes,
Fieldfares, Larks, Linnets, Blackbirds, Starlings, Lapwings, Curlews,
and a few Goldcrests, from about an hour after lighting time till the
light was extinguished. A great number struck the dome of lantern and
were killed, falling into the sea. Mr Black says--"The flocks are most
dense to-night, and are all mixed together. It is no use trying to give
numbers. We captured a few Blackbirds and Fieldfares." (From N.E. to
S., strong breezes; slight haze.) _Bahama Bank_ L.V., number of Larks,
Thrushes, and Blackbirds all night; one Thrush and three Blackbirds
killed. (E., 4; O. G.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., four Goldfinches on island
at 9 A.M. Flocks of Linnets at 10.20 A.M., all flying S.S.E. A Woodcock
and four Sparrows shot on island at 4 P.M. _Holyhead_ L.H., four
Goldfinches going S.E. at noon. _South Stack_ L.H., Fieldfare caught
at lantern at 2.30 A.M. Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, Starlings,
and Larks from 7 P.M. till midnight; a great many flying around the
lantern; a few killed. (E., 3; C. M. P.) _South Bishop_ L.H., a few
birds striking the lantern from 9 P.M. to 2 A.M. (11th): one Land
Rail, three Thrushes, and two Blackbirds killed. _Helwick_ L.V., a
good many small birds at the lantern; one "Warbler" killed. (E, 2;
O. M. D.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Lapwings at 1.10 A.M.; one killed; two
Common Snipe killed at 4.30 A.M. (E.N.E., 2; C. M. P.) _Longships_
L.H., a few Starlings, Thrushes, and Goldcrests at the lantern from
8 to 9 P.M. (E.N.E., 3; misty, rain.) _Eddystone_ L.H., many birds
passing--Thrushes, Snipe, Larks, and Redwings--from 8 P.M. to 4 A.M.
(11th); a few killed. (N.N.E., 3; C. G. M.)

November 11th.--_Cumberland_, an Isabelline Wheatear, female, shot
at Aigle Gill, near Allonby, by Mr Richard Mann. One Hooded Crow
at Allonby. _Chickens Rock_ L.H., a very large number of Thrushes,
Fieldfares, Larks, Linnets, Blackbirds, Starlings, Lapwings, Curlews,
and a few Goldcrests. Hundreds must have been killed by striking the
lantern, as they kept striking all night through. (Hazy, with light
winds varying from E. to S. and S.S.W.) _Bahama Bank_ L.V., number
of Larks, Thrushes, and Blackbirds all night; two Blackbirds killed.
(E. by N.; O. G.) _River Dee_ L.V., one Snipe found dead on deck
at daylight. (E.N.E., 2; O. M.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., Blackbirds,
Starlings, and Larks nearly all night; several killed against glass.
(S.E., 2; misty.) _South Stack_ L.H., Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings,
Starlings, and Larks, in numbers round lantern, from 7 P.M. till
midnight. (E.S.E., 3; C. M.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., great numbers of
Blackbirds and Thrushes around the lantern. (S.E., 3; B. C.) _South
Bishop_ L.H., a large number of birds at the lantern from 9 P.M. to
3 A.M. (12th): sixty-four killed--Larks, Blackbirds, and Thrushes.
(E., 2; B. C. M.) _Helwick_ L.V., a great number of Larks, Starlings,
Blackbirds, and Thrushes during the night; several killed. (N.E. by
E., 2; O. M.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Redwings passed to W. at 6.30 A.M.
Song Thrushes (four killed) at 7.30 P.M.; Blackbirds (two killed) at
9.5 P.M. (E.N.E., 4; C. M.) _Breaksea_ L.V., Thrushes and Larks from
9 to 11 P.M.; six killed. (E.N.E., 3; O. M.) _Bull Point_ L.H., a hen
*Chaffinch killed at 3 A.M. (E., 3; B. C. M.) _Longships_ L.H., Puffins
and Guillemots passing S. all day. (E., 3.) _Eddystone_ L.H., many
birds passing, see under 10th; a Jacksnipe caught at 2 A.M. (N.E. by
E., 3; C. M.) _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., a Wren at lantern at 3.30 A.M.
(E.N.E., 4; C. M.)

November 12th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., a large flock of birds at 11.30
A.M. flying N., thought to be Fieldfares. (S. strong airs; clear.) Mr
Black says there were flocks of the same birds, as reported for the
10th and 11th (excepting the Linnets), here again to-night, but not in
such numbers as last night; very few struck, though the weather was
hazy. Found Redstart [? _Ruticilla titys_] killed on the dome. Number
of Moths on lantern. _Skerries Rock_ L.H., one Owl and one Fieldfare
on island. Fieldfares, Blackbirds, Starlings, Thrushes, Chaffinches,
and Larks all night; several killed. (S.S.E. to S., 2; misty and
gloomy.) _South Stack_ L.H., Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Larks around
the lantern, twenty-four killed, from 12.30 A.M. till 3 A.M. (S.E., 2;
O. M.) _South Bishop_ L.H., thirty Linnets at 11 A.M. A few birds at
lantern between 9 and 11 P.M.; eighteen killed--thirteen Larks, four
female Blackbirds, and one Redwing.

November 13th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., several large flocks of birds
seen at 10 A.M. flying S.S.W.; species not made out. Starlings, Larks,
Fieldfares, and Thrushes from 7 P.M. till morning, flying in the rays
of light. (E.N.E. strong breeze; clear.) _Morecambe Bay_ L.V., two
Chaffinches at 9 A.M.; two Greenfinches at 1 P.M. Several Starlings
about the lantern from 8 to 12 P.M. (S.S.W., 3; O.) _River Dee_ L.V.,
flocks of Sand Larks about the lantern from 6 P.M. to midnight.
(E.N.E., 1.) _Skerries Rock_ L.H., large flock of Greenfinches at
12.10 P.M. flying S. (S., 1; misty and gloomy.) _Holyhead_ L.H., a
Goldfinch caught at lantern at 2 A.M. _Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., Blackbirds
and Starlings going E. all day. _St Tudwal's_ L.H., a Blackbird struck
the lantern at midnight. _South Bishop_ L.H., a few birds at lantern
from 9 P.M. to 5 A.M. (14th); twenty-seven killed, mostly "female
Blackbirds." (E.N.E., 3; C. V.) _Helwick_ L.V., a Woodcock, a Lark,
and a Thrush killed between 5 and 6 A.M. (E. by N., 2; Q. M.) _Nash_
(_E._) L.H., three Snipe passed N.W. at 6 A.M. A large flock of
Lapwings from 6.30 to 10 P.M.--thirty striking, four killed; a "Hawk"
Owl flying round the lantern all night. Fieldfares from 6.30 to 10
P.M.; Goldcrests from 6.30 to 9 P.M., four killed; *Water Rail at 7.30
P.M., one killed; three Woodcocks killed from 7 to 8 P.M.; two Snipe
killed at 9.20 P.M.; continuous flocks of Redwings from 7 to 10 P.M.,
nine killed; eighty-two Skylarks killed from 9 to 11.30 P.M.; and seven
Song Thrushes killed at 11 P.M. (E.N.E., 3; C. M. O.) This movement
was continued in the early hours of the 14th. (_q. v._) _Breaksea_
L.V., many birds at lantern from 8 to 10 P.M.; a Quail, six Larks, one
Thrush, and one Redwing killed. (E.N.E., 4; O. M.) _Eddystone_ L.H., a
Blackbird killed at 5.30 A.M. (E. by S., 4; C. V.) Portland (Low) L.H.,
a Snipe struck at 2 A.M. (S.S.E., 4; C. M.)

November 14th.--_Cumberland_, one immature Velvet Scoter (another shot
off Burgh Marsh in December). _Chickens Rock_ L.H., six Rooks at 9.30
A.M. coming from S., flying towards Isle of Man. Large flock of birds
at noon, species unknown, flying N.N.W. Eight Geese at 3 P.M. flying S.
(N.E. strong breeze; clear.) Mr Black says--"I do not remember seeing
birds so plentiful in our vicinity, and continuing to visit us in such
large numbers." _Skerries Rock_ L.H., a Lapwing struck lantern and was
killed at 7.45 P.M. (S.E., 2; clear to M. R.) _Holyhead Breakwater_
L.H., thousands of Wild Ducks at 11 A.M. in the bay. (S.E., 1; C. H.)
_South Stack_ L.H., Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, Redwings, Fieldfares,
and one Robin at lantern from 8 P.M. till midnight; a few killed.
(E., 2; C. G. M.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., several flocks of Starlings
and Larks throughout the day going S.E. One Blackbird and one Thrush
struck the lantern. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Stonechats at 12.30 A.M., four
killed; *Blackcap from 12 P.M. (13th) to 1.13 A.M., "fifteen killed;"
four Snipe killed between 12 P.M. (13th) and 3 A.M.; twenty-two
Skylarks killed between 12 P.M. (13th) and 4 A.M.; Blackbirds from
3 to 4 A.M., three killed; Missel Thrushes at 4 A.M., one killed; a
Wood Pigeon struck at 4.20 A.M.; a large flock of Lapwings passed to
N.W. at 8 A.M.; Lapwings at the lantern at 6.30 P.M. (E.N.E., 2; B. C.
M.) _Eddystone_ L.H., Oyster-catchers, Plovers, Blackbirds, Thrushes,
Redwings, and Starlings, from 6.30 to 9.30 P.M., when the stars came
out and the birds disappeared. Caught three Blackbirds, one Thrush, two
Redwings, and five Starlings. (N.E, 4; C. V.)

November 15th.--_South Bishop_ L.H., from 100 to 150 Crows at 11.30
A.M. flying E.

November 16th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., six Blackbirds and four Redwings
killed against lantern-glass at 3.20 A.M. (S., 4.) One Snipe and some
Lapwings flying round lantern at 3.45 A.M., but did not strike. One
Waterhen killed against lantern-glass at 3.45 A.M. "Struck very hard."
A large flock of Greenfinches at 7.45 A.M. flying W. Great number
of Wild Fowl from 9 to 10.30 A.M. flying W. (W.N.W., 4; B. C. V.)
_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., Starlings, Larks, Thrushes, and Snipe at 4 A.M.;
one Starling, Thrush, and Snipe killed. (S., 4; B. C.) _Nash_ (_E._)
L.H., one Skylark killed at 8 P.M. (E., 3; B. C. M.) _Burnham_ L.H.,
Fieldfares about all day.

November 17th.--_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V., Blackbirds and Starlings going
S.S.E. at 10 A.M. _South Bishop_ L.H., a party of ten Crows at 7 A.M.
_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., two Snipe passed N.W. at 7 A.M.; and a flock of
Golden Plover passed W. at 7.30 A.M. A great rush of Lapwings to-night.
They commenced to arrive at 7.40 P.M., and continued until 11 P.M.;
hundreds constantly flying round the lantern, within the rays of light.
A few struck at times, and seven were killed. They were very noisy, and
kept up quite a concert. They all left at 11.10 P.M. (E.S.E., 4; B.
C. M.) _Breaksea_ L.V., a Thrush killed at 11.40 P.M. _Seven Stones_
L.V., a Crow flew on board at 6 P.M.; passed the night, and left for
Scilly at 7 A.M. (18th). _Eddystone_ L.H., a Jacksnipe caught at 3 A.M.
(E.S.E., 5; B. C. V.) Flocks of Lapwings from 6 to 9 P.M. (E.N.E., 6;
O. R. M.) Several Starlings, Thrushes, Redwings, Blackbirds, passing
all night from 5.30 P.M. till 6 A.M. (18th); a few caught. (N.E., 3; O.
M.)

November 18th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., one "Rock Starling" and one Lark
perched on lantern at 2 A.M. Four "Sea Snipe" and one Lapwing at 10
A.M. Lapwings going E. (2, N.E.; clear and frosty.) _Skerries Rock_
L.H., large flock of Linnets and Chaffinches going S. at 8 A.M. Two
large flocks of Wild Fowl going E. at 10 A.M. (S., 3; clear.) _South
Bishop_ L.H., several birds flying round the lantern from midnight to
3 A.M.; eight Blackbirds, two Starlings, two Larks, and three Thrushes
killed. _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a Jacksnipe killed at 3 A.M. Blackbirds
from 3 to 4 A.M., three killed; Redwings from 3 to 4 A.M., six killed;
Skylarks from 3 to 4 A.M., two killed; Song Thrushes from 3 to 4
A.M., four killed; Snipe, one killed at 3.30 A.M. (E., 3; B. C. M.)
_Breaksea_ L.V., Thrushes and Starlings from midnight (17th) to 4 A.M.
(E.N.E., 4; O. M.) _Burnham_, the first Grey Wagtail seen. _Eddystone_
L.H., for early morning movement see yesterday. A Land Rail on the
gallery at 7 A.M. (N., 2; O. M.) Many birds passing from 11 P.M. to
3.30 A.M. (19th). Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Redwings. Caught two ♀ and
one ♂ Blackbird; one Fieldfare, and fifteen Redwings killed. Numbers
striking lantern and lost over. (N., 4; O. R. M.)

November 19th.--_River Dee_ L.V., Thrushes, Larks, and Blackbirds
round the lantern at 9.15 P.M.; one Thrush killed. (W.S.W., 2; B. C.
V.) _Cardigan Bay_ L.V., a flock of Greenfinches going S.E. at 2 P.M.
_Helwick_ L.V., a few Blackbirds from 8 P.M. to midnight; one (young)
killed. (N., 3; G. M.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., a *Knot killed at 2 A.M.
(E., 2; O. M. R.) _Breaksea_ L.V., Thrushes and other birds from 12
P.M. (18th) to 4 A.M. (N.E., 1; O. M. R.) _Longships_ L.H., a good many
Larks, Starlings, and Thrushes, from 1 A.M. till daylight. (E.N.E. to
N.N.E., 4; misty.) _Eddystone_ L.H., for early morning movement see
yesterday.

November 20th.--_Helwick_ L.V., a few Larks and Starlings around the
lantern. (N.E., 4; C. M.) _Breaksea_ L.V., many Lapwings, Thrushes,
Blackbirds, Starlings, and other birds, from midnight to 4 A.M. (N.E.,
5, 6; O. M. R.) _Eddystone_ L.H., several Starlings and Redwings from
3.30 A.M. till 7 A.M. (N.N.E, 4; C. M.)

November 21st.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., one Fork-Tailed Petrel flying
about the rock at 7.30 A.M. One male Blackbird struck the lantern and
was caught at 9.30 P.M. (3, S.S.E.; thick haze.) _Breaksea_ L.V., a
*Coot caught at 5 A.M. (E.S.E., 4; O. F.)

November 22d.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., one Redwing struck heavily at 2
A.M., but was lost over. Number of Crows from daybreak till 9 A.M.
going E. Ten Kittiwakes at 10 A.M. going E. These birds are seldom here
at this season in such numbers, (3, E.; clear.) _South Bishop_ L.H.,
sixty to seventy Crows at 10.15 and 11.30 A.M. flying E.

November 23d.--_South Bishop_ L.H., seven flocks of Crows, of from six
to thirty in a flock, from 8.30 to 11 A.M., flying to E. (E., 7; C. B.
V.)

November 24th.--_South Bishop_ L.H., Crows passing E. in single numbers
from 9 to 11 A.M.

November 25th.--_Cardigan Bay_ L.V., a large flock of Lapwings flying
round the lantern at 2 A.M. _South Bishop_ L.H., a flock of about
thirty Crows at 10 A.M. flying E.[10] _Eddystone_ L.H., a few Redwings
from 1 to 3 A.M.; one caught. (W. by N, 4; O. V.)

[Footnote 10: Messrs Nicholas & Pell remark on the Crows passing this
station since the 15th inst.:--"We never saw such a quantity of Crows
pass before, during the ten years we have been stationed here."]

November 26th.--_South Bishop_ L.H., a Magpie alighted on the rock at 2
P.M. (S.W., 7; C. M.)

November 28th.--_Cumberland_, a female Great Grey Shrike, var.
"_major_," shot at Cumwhinton, near Carlisle.

November 29th.--_Skerries Rock_ L.H., a few Blackbirds, Thrushes, and
Starlings flying round lantern from 5 to 6 A.M. (S.E., 4; O. M. R.)


DECEMBER.

December 3d.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., a number of Razorbills from
early A.M. till 1 P.M. sitting on water. _Skerries Rock_ L.H., a few
Razorbills about to S.E. of island at 1.30 P.M. (S.W.,8; stormy.)

December 7th.--_Cumberland_, an immature Richardson's Skua at Allonby,
felled by a stone while feeding on the carcase of a Pig.

December 9th.--_South Stack_ L.H., one Fieldfare and one Lark struck
the lantern and killed at 11.40 P.M.

December 10th.--_St Tudwal's_ L.H., a Bullfinch in the garden.

December 11th.--_Chickens Rock_ L.H., a number of Larks, one Song
Thrush, one Starling, and one Brambling flying round light at 3.30 A.M.
(2, E.; sleet shower.)

December 12th.--_Breaksea_ L.V., many Lapwings, Starlings, Blackbirds,
and others, around the lantern from 12 P.M. to 4 A.M. (E.S.E., 4; O.
M.) _Eddystone_ L.H., "a few Thrushes and Warblers" passing from 12
P.M. to 7 A.M. (E., 2; C. V.)

December 17th.--_Langness_ L.H., one Redshank caught on lantern at 7
P.M. (S.W. strong breeze; clear.)

December 21st.--_Nash_ (_E._) L.H., Fieldfares and Redwings passing at
intervals from noon to 3 P.M. (N.E., 3.) _Eddystone_ L.H., a Jacksnipe
killed at 3 A.M. (N.N.E., 3; B. C. V.)

December 22d.--_Langness_ L.H., three Snow Buntings at 3 P.M. (N. fresh
breeze; clear.) _Nash_ (_E._) L.H., eight to twelve Song Thrushes going
S.W. at 9 A.M. Starlings and Fieldfares going W.S.W. from 9 A.M. to 3
P.M. _Portland_ (_Low_) L.H., two Thrushes at 11.30 A.M.

W. Eagle Clarke.

Museum of Science and Art, Edinburgh.




IRISH COAST.


The Report for 1887 on the Irish coast is satisfactory. The schedules
number seventy-five, from thirty-one stations. As a rule they never
were better or more carefully filled, and the number of legs and
wings and specimens is almost 150. In addition to the schedules, many
letters have been received, either inquiring the names of species
or remarking on the special movements of birds. This shows that the
Irish light-keepers display an intelligent and increasing interest
in birds, and are quite as anxious and as willing as their English
and Scottish brethren to further the objects of this inquiry. It is a
difficult task to select from so many observers any special names; but
the schedules from the Fastnet, Tuskar, and Coningbeg Light-ship, and
the number of specimens accompanying them, deserve to be gratefully
recorded. Messrs George Dunleavy, Patrick Cullen, W. Clydesdale, Peter
Page, Edward M'Kenna, J. M. Leary, and P. Corish were the contributors.
Some light-keepers are more fortunately situated than others, and the
excellence of a schedule is to some extent dependent on locality. At
the same time at a bad station a watchful observer can often supply
notes which enable us to comprehend more clearly the range over which
the movements of certain species extend.

At all times it has been a matter for regret that the identification
of birds by the light-keepers was not more accurate. Even trained
ornithologists might readily err in distinguishing species flying past
or around the lanterns, and it cannot be too strongly impressed on the
light-keepers that _it is of vital importance to send a leg and wing of
at least one specimen of every species killed striking. Uncommon birds
should be forwarded in the flesh_.

As to rarities, 1887 stands ahead of any other year on the Irish
coast. Two birds have been added to the Irish list--the Red-breasted
Flycatcher (Mr Alfred B. Wall and Patrick Clancy), and the Lapland
Bunting (Mr George Dunleavy). Both were fortunately sent in the
flesh--the former as a "small bird," the latter as a "Twite."
Particulars of the occurrence of each is given in the body of the
Report. The Greenland Falcon was received from the Skelligs (Messrs
James Walsh and Benjamin Jeffers)--shot while eating a rabbit,
September 28th. It has not been noticed on the west coast by the
light-keepers since the winter of 1883-4. Probably _Falco candicans_
loses its way migrating, or in following the numerous flocks of
sea-fowl on their southerly journey from the arctic seas in the autumn.
The Falcon sent from the Skelligs was a magnificent old male--legs
yellow, and plumage unusually white. The Pied Flycatcher is reported
to have been seen at the Fastnet on April 12th. Mr George Dunleavy
says it was the same species as he sent the leg and wing of in October
1886. The first Irish specimen was killed April 18th, 1875, at Ballina
(_Zoologist_, 1875, p. 4498), but other Irish records (see Report for
1886, p. 128) are autumnal.

A Redstart was received from the Fastnet, and the stations from which
the Black Redstart is reported are more numerous than any year so far;
these are authenticated by six specimens received. The stations extend
from Arklow S. light-ship round the S. coast to Blackrock, Mayo. From
the latter station no specimen was received, but the description in the
schedule agrees with the Black Redstart. None have yet been observed at
any light stations on the N. coast.

The Sedge Warbler is killed striking more frequently than any other
Warbler; next comes the Whitethroat; but at the N. and N.W. stations
no Warblers strike--the S. and S.E. coasts containing all the records.
The legs and wings doubtfully referred to the Reed Warbler last year
have been re-examined, and do not belong to that species. A Woodlark
was received in the flesh, shot on the Tearaght Rock by Mr Ryan on
October 20th, one of the last places in Ireland one would expect to
meet this bird, even when migrating. This Lark has been seen so seldom
in Ireland since _Thompson's Natural History_ was published, in which
it is described as a "_resident_ but very local species," that some
questioned its right to be inserted in the Irish list, especially as no
specimens were produced. It has not been known to breed in Ireland. The
Snow Bunting, as is usual, occurs mainly on the N. and W. coasts. In
Ireland it is very rare inland, especially in the southern half.

The Lapland Bunting has already been referred to. It was found dead
October 16th on the Fastnet Rock, and was forwarded in the flesh. It
is a female, and probably of European origin, and is the first Irish
record.

"Mountain Finches" were reported from the Skelligs in November 1886;
but, with this exception, no Bramblings were mentioned in the schedules
until 1887, and the Siskin appears for the first time, both species
being authenticated by specimens. The distribution of some volumes of
Morris' "British Birds" has probably assisted in their identification,
combined with information received in reply to parcels of legs and
wings forwarded. Yet there can be no doubt 1887 was remarkable for the
number of Bramblings and Siskins which visited Ireland. The data from
light stations is too scanty to speak positively; but, unlike the Snow
Bunting, the Brambling and Siskin seem to have no preference for the
N. and N.W. coasts. "Linnets" is a term which has appeared in reports
from the commencement. It occasionally includes, there is little doubt,
other birds besides the Grey Linnet. Not a single leg or wing of the
Grey Linnet has yet been received. The Bullfinch is seldom alluded to,
and so far--using only the Irish migration reports--there is little or
no evidence that it migrates at all.

In 1884 an extraordinary movement of Rooks from W. to E. was observed
at the Tearaght and Skelligs in November; it lasted about three weeks.
In 1887, about the same time, a similar occurrence is mentioned at the
same stations. They are twenty miles apart, and both about nine miles
from shore. There is no land to the westward nearer than America. On
both occasions the birds are said to have appeared tired. On April
12th, a Hoopoe was shot at Eagle Island, E. (Mr Daniel Hawkins), off
Mayo, and forwarded in the flesh.

From Blackrock (Mayo), Mr Edward Rohu forwarded a Turtle Dove--a rare
and unexpected visitor in such a locality. From the Tearaght, Co. Kerry
(Mr F. Ryan), the skin of a Spotted Crake--very rare in Ireland--was
sent. Bird caught August 21st.

Between November 8th and 19th the Water Rail occurred at several
stations all round Ireland, except on the W. coast, and in all cases
but one at a considerable distance from shore. Records authenticated by
specimens killed striking.

A Bald Coot was killed striking the Arklow S. light-ship September 22d,
and for the first time this species has appeared in our reports. Leg
and wing received.

Considering the numbers of Woodcock which annually visit Ireland,
the scanty information received from the light-stations as to its
movements is surprising. It is insufficient to enable any one to form
an opinion as to whether it arrives first on the W. coast or not, but
the statement that it does so is contrary to what might be expected,
and until supported by satisfactory evidence would be prudently omitted
from our text books.

The observations on Gulls are of questionable value. Confusion between
the species is inevitable, but they are continued in the hope that when
the schedules for several years are compared some tangible fragment
may be forthcoming. "Cream-coloured Gulls" were noted at Slyne Head,
S., and at the Tearaght. They are probably Iceland Gulls, and from
previous migration reports it may be gathered that a few straggle to
the W. coast of Ireland almost every year. A Glaucous Gull is noted
at Blackrock, Mayo, the first time this species has been definitely
mentioned in the schedules. The Fork-tailed Petrel was found breeding
on the Tearaght Rock in very limited numbers by Mr By an, who kindly
forwarded a specimen and its egg. Particulars are given under this
species.

The only stations at which the migratory movements of Wild Geese are
returned in any number, are on the coast of Donegal. This has always
been the case.

The autumn rushes of most species were on a larger scale than usual,
and between the 10th and 13th of November the greatest migratory
movement yet recorded on the Irish coast took place. As usual the S.E.
stations experienced the rush most, but it was felt on the W. coast
also. At the Tuskar countless numbers of Blackbirds, Thrushes, and
Starlings passed. Chaffinches and Larks and other birds in smaller
numbers accompanied them. The spring movements in February and March
were also better defined than usual, but only a careful mapping out of
the various entries all round the coast would enable one to make an
accurate comparison with previous years.

As far as Waders are concerned, there is no evidence derived from the
light-stations to show that they arrive in greater numbers on our N.
coast in the autumn than on our S. and S.E. coasts.

One or two instances of Gulls chasing and killing small birds are given
in schedules. (See under Skylark and Greenfinch.)

There are several entries of birds killed striking on clear nights,
which is not usual.

At the conclusion of the preface to every Report it has been usual to
express our thanks to the Irish light-keepers for their assistance and
co-operation. This year such thanks were never better deserved. It may
be that at times the letters of inquiry, legs and wings and specimens
received from the light-keepers have remained unacknowledged for a long
time. If this has been the case, it is only due to the great pressure
of private business, between the intervals of which this Report alone
can be written, and not from any wilful negligence or failure to
appreciate the gratuitous services of the observers, for whom this
apology is intended. To Mr Owen Armstrong, the secretary to the Irish
Light Board, and to Captain Boxer, R.N., inspector of Irish Lights, we
are under many obligations. Their co-operation is as necessary as the
sanction of the Irish Light Board to the continuance of this inquiry,
and for both we express our gratitude.


Richard M. Barrington. Alexander G. More.

  Abbreviations:

    SF =  Schedules Filled.  LW = Legs, Wings,   etc., Received.
    LS = Light-ship  MS = Miles from Shore.

                                      Remarks            Names of
      List of Light Stations.   SF LW on Sch.   Sp Au MS Observers.

   1.  Fastnet, Co. Cork,        5 15 excellent, x  x  8 George Dunleavy.
   3.  Old Head, Kinsale, Cork,  2  0 good.      x  x -- Robert Tyrrell.
   4.  Mine Head, Waterford,     2  7 very good, x  x -- Edward M'Carron.
   5_a_. Hook Tower, Wexford,    1  3 fair.      x  o -- Richard Hamilton.
   5.* Coningbeg LS, Wexford,    5 24 excellent, x  x 10 Patrick Cullen and
                                                           Wm. Clydesdale.
   6.  Barrels Rock LS, do.,     4  4 very good, x  x  4 Charles H. M'Cabe.
   7.  Tuskar Rock, do.,         6 32 excellent, x  x  7 P. Page, E. M'Kenna,
                                                           J. M. Leary, and
                                                           Patrick Corish.
   7_a_. Lucifer Shoals LS, do., 1  1 good.      o  x  9 James Byrne and
                                                           Michael Ansel.
   8.  Arklow Sth. LS, Wicklow,  3 12 very good, x  x  7 Patrick Clancy and
                                                           Alfred B. Wall.
   8.* Arklow North LS, do.,     3  0 very good, x  x  8 William Daly.
  11.  Howth Baily, Dublin,      1  1 fair.      o  x -- R. Armstrong.
  12.  Rockabill, Dublin,        5  2 fair.      x  o  5 Henry Kelly.
  12_b_. South Rock Lt.-ship,    1  0 good.      o  x  3 Thomas Cooney and
           Down,                                           Henry Thompson.
  14.* Maidens, South Antrim,    1  0 fair.      o  x  5 B. Sole and J.
                                                           Corish.
  14.  Maidens, North do.,       1  1 fair.      o  x  5 Richard Hamilton.
  15.  Rathlin, Antrim,          1  0 poor.      o  x  6 Patrick Keenan.
  16.  Innishtrahull, Donegal,   2  2 very good, x  x  6 M. S. Kennedy.
  17.  Dunree Head, do.,         2  0 good.      x  x -- Jervis Brownell.
  19.  Tory Island, do.,         2  7 very good, x  x  9 Henry Kelly.
  20.  Arranmore, do.,           2  0 very good, x  x  5 Henry Williams and
                                                           Thomas Fortune.
  21.  Rathlin O'Birne, do.,     2  2 very good, x  x  2 J. C. M'Ginley.
  22.  Killybegs, do.,           7  0 very good, x  x -- Joseph Hill.
  24.  Broadhaven, Mayo,         2  0 fair.      x  x -- John A. Murray.
  26.  Eagle Island, W., Mayo,   1  1 poor.      x  o  2 Hugh Keeney.
  27.  Blackrock, Mayo,          2  5 very good, x  x  9 Edward Rohu.
  31.  Slyne Head, S., Galway,   3  0 very good, x  x  3 Richd. Widdicombe.
  32.  Arran Island, Is., do.,   2  0 very good, x  x  9 Thomas Fortune and
                                                           Henry Williams.
  34.  Arran Island, S., do.,    1  0 very good. o  x  6 Charles P. Page.
  36.  Samphire Island, Kerry,   1  0 poor.      o  x -- R. Phelan.
  37.  Tearaght, Kerry,          3 13 very good, x  x  9 Francis Ryan.
  39.  Skelligs, Kerry,          3  9 very good, x  x  9 James Walshe.

  Legs, wings, etc., received, 142. Eagle Island, East, sent no
  schedule, but forwarded a rare bird--the Hoopoe. Galley Head,
  Dungarvan, Kish Light-ship, Copeland or Mew Island, Oyster Island,
  N., Blacksod Point, Clare Island, Slyne Head, N., Straw Island,
  Valentia, and Dursey Island--sent neither schedules nor legs or
  wings of birds, and are therefore omitted from the list; and four
  new stations--Hook Tower, Lucifer Shoals, South Rock Light-ship,
  and Maidens, North--have been added. As a whole the schedules were
  never better filled.

  o  = No reply. x = Schedules returned partly or wholly filled.
  Sp = Spring, replies received, 23. Au = Autumn, replies received, 28.


Legs, Wings, etc., Received.

                                        How                  Name of
  Species.           How Received.   Procured.     Date.   Station.

  Greenland Falcon, Rec'd. in flesh, Shot,       28/ 9 mo., Great Skellig.
  Merlin,                 "             "        19/10 mo., Tearaght.
  Long-eared Owl,   Leg and wing,       "        13/11 mo., Tuskar.
  Spotted                 "          Killed       1/ 6 mo., Barrels Rock
    Flycatcher,                         st.,[11]               Lt.-ship.
     "                    "             "        21/ 9 mo., Coningbeg Lt.-sh.
     "                    "          Shot,        2/10 mo., Tearaght.
  Red-breasted      Rec'd. in flesh, Killed st., 23/10 mo., Arklow S. Lt.-sh.
    Flycatcher,
  Missel Thrush,    Leg and wing,       "        12/11 mo., Tuskar.
  Thrush,                 "             "        12/11 mo., Fastnet.
     "                    "          Found dead  10/ 3 mo., Coningbeg Lt.-sh.
                                       on deck,
     "                    "          Killed st., 19/ 3 mo.,     "
     "              Rec'd. in flesh,    "         6/11 mo.,     "
     "              Wing,               "        19/ 2 mo., Tuskar.
     "              Leg and wing,       "        21/10 mo.,   "
     "                    "             "        21/ 3 mo., Arklow S. Lt.-sh.
     "                    "             "        11/11 mo.,    "
     "                    "          Shot,       28/10 mo., Tearaght.
  Redwing,                "          Killed st., 12/11 mo., Fastnet.
     "                    "             "        11/11 mo., Barrels Rock
                                                              Lt.-ship.
     "                    "             "        17/10 mo., Tuskar.
     "                    "             "        12/11 mo.,    "
     "                    "             "        22/12 mo.,    "
     "                    "             "        12/11 mo., Innishtrahull.
     "                    "             "        16/10 mo., Tory Island.
  Fieldfare,              "          Shot,       19/12 mo., Mine Head.
     "                    "          Killed st.,  7/11 mo., Tuskar.
     "                    "             "         9/11 mo.,   "
     "                    "             "        16/10 mo., Tory Island.
     "              Rec'd. in flesh,    "        10/11 mo., Eagle Island, W.
  Blackbird,        Leg and wing,       "        16/ 7 mo., Hook Tower.
     "                    "             "        20/ 2 mo., Coningbeg Lt.-sh.
     "                    "             "         3/ 3 mo.,    "
     "                    "             "        20/ 3 mo.,    "
     "                    "             "         6/10 mo.,    "
     "                    "             "        12/11 mo., Barrels Rock
                                                               Lt.-ship
     "                    "          Caught at   14/11 mo., Arklow S. Lt.-sh.
                                       lantern,
     "               Wing,           Killed st., 19/ 2 mo., Tuskar.
     "               Leg and wing,      "        21/10 mo.,    "
     "                    "          Caught at    7/11 mo.,   "
                                       lantern,
     "                    "          Killed st., 16/10 mo., Tory Island.
     "                    "          Caught,     10/11 mo., Blackrock, Mayo.

[Footnote 11: Killed st. = Killed striking lantern.]


Legs, Wings, etc., Received--continued.


                                        How                  Name of
  Species.          How Received.   Procured.    Date.   Station.

  Ring Ouzel,      Rec'd. in flesh,  Killed st.,  21/ 9 mo.,  Tuskar.
  Redstart,              "           Caught,       5/10 mo.,  Fastnet.
  Black Redstart,        "              "         19/10 mo.,     "
     "                   "           Killed st.,  23/10 mo.,  Arklow S.
                                                                Lt.-ship.
     "                   "           Shot,        20/10 mo.,  Skelligs.
     "             Leg and wing,     Found dead,  23/10 mo.,     "
     "                   "           Shot,        20/10 mo.,  Tearaght.
     "             Rec'd. in flesh,  Caught,      21/ 3 mo.,  Hook Tower.
  Stonechat,             "           Found dead,  20/10 mo.,  Fastnet.
  Wheatear,        Leg and wing,     Killed st.,  15/ 3 mo.,  Tuskar.
  Sedge Warbler,         "              "         15/ 5 mo.,  Coningbeg
                                                                Lt.-ship.
     "                   "              "         30/ 5 mo.,     "
     "                   "              "          6/10 mo.,  Tuskar.
  Whitethroat,           "           Caught,      20/ 9 mo.,  Mine Head.
     "                   "           Killed st.,  16/ 5 mo.,     "
  Willow Wren,           "           Found dead,  22/ 5 mo.,  Coningbeg
                                                                Lt.-ship.
     "                   "              "         21/ 4 mo.,  Arklow S.
                                                                Lt.-ship.
     "             Wing,                "         13/ 4 mo.,  Tearaght.
  Goldcrest,       Leg and wing,     Shot,        22/10 mo.,     "
  Blue Tit,              "              "         14/ 3 mo.,  Mine Head.
  Pied "Wagtail,         "           Found dead,  28/ 2 mo.,  Fastnet.
     "                   "           Caught,      22/ 9 mo.,  Tuskar.
  Grey Wagtail,          "           Killed st.,   8/10 mo.,  Coningbeg
                                                                Lt.-ship.
  Meadow Pipit,          "              "         21/ 9 mo.,      "
     "                   "           Found dead,   8/10 mo.,      "
     "                   "           Killed st.,  12/11 mo.,  Tuskar.
     "                   "           Found dead,  23/10 mo.,  Skelligs.
  Skylark,               "              "         16/10 mo.,  Fastnet.
     "             Wing,             Killed st.   19/ 2 mo.,  Tuskar.
     "             Leg and wing,        "         19/10 mo.,     "
     "                   "              "         21/10 mo.,     "
     "                   "           Caught,      11/11 mo.,     "
     "                   "           Killed st.,  18/10 mo.,  Tory Island.
  Woodlark,        Rec'd. in flesh,  Shot,        20/10 mo.,  Tearaght.
  Snow Bunting,    Leg and wing,        "          3/ 5 mo.,     "
  Lapland Bunting  Rec'd, in flesh,  Found dead,  16/10 mo.,  Fastnet.
  Black-headed           "           Caught,      12/11 mo.,  Arklow S.
    Bunting,                                                    Lt.-ship.
  Yellow Bunting,        "           ....         30/11 mo.,  Maidens, N.
     "                   "           ....          8/ 9 mo.,  Arklow S.
                                                                Lt.-ship.
  Chaffinch,       Leg and wing,     Found dead   17/10 mo.,  Fastnet.
     "                   "              "          9/12 mo.,     "
     "                   "           Caught,      16/10 mo.,  Mine Head.
     "                   "           Found dead,  13/ 5 mo.,  Coningbeg
                                                                Lt.-ship.
     "             Rec'd. in flesh,  Killed st.,  13/11 mo.,     "
     "                   "              "          7/11 mo.,  Barrels Rock
                                                                 Lt.-ship


Legs, Wings, etc., Received--continued.


                                       How                   Name of
  Species.         How Received.     Procured.     Date.     Station.

  Chaffinch,     Wing,             ....        29/ 3 mo., Tuskar.
     "           Leg and wing,    Killed St.,  16/10 mo.,    "
     "                 "             "         17/10 mo.,    "
     "                 "          Shot,        22/11 mo., Blackrock, Mayo.
     "                 "          Found dead,  22/10 mo., Skelligs.
  Brambling,     Rec'd. in flesh, Killed st.,  12/11 mo., Arklow S. Lt.-ship.
     "           Leg and wing,    Shot,        20/10 mo., Tearaght.
     "                 "             "         10/11 mo., Skelligs.
  House Sparrow,       "             "         14/ 3 mo., Mine Head.
  Greenfinch,    Rec'd. in flesh, Killed st.,   9/11 mo., Lucifer Shoals.
     "           Leg and wing,    Caught,      12/11 mo., Blackrock, Mayo.
     "                 "          Shot,        20/10 mo., Tearaght.
  Siskin,        Rec'd. in flesh, Caught,      18/10 mo., Fastnet.
     "                 "          Killed st.,  20/10 mo.,    "
     "                 "             "         11/11 mo., Coningbeg Lt.-ship.
     "           Leg and wing,    Found dead,   3/12 mo., Tuskar.
     "                 "          Shot,        24/10 mo., Skelligs.
     "                 "          Found dead,  18/11 mo.,    "
     "                 "          Shot,        19/10 mo., Tearaght.
  Starling,      Rec'd. in flesh, Found dead,  13/11 mo., Fastnet.
     "           Leg and wing,    Killed st.,  19/ 3 mo., Coningbeg Lt.-ship.
     "                 "             "         20/ 3 mo.,    "
     "                 "             "         16/10 mo., Tuskar.
     "                 "             "         10/12 mo., Arklow S. Lt.-ship.
     "                 "             "         16/10 mo., Tory Island.
  Swallow,             "          Caught,       5/10 mo., Fastnet.
     "           Rec'd. in flesh, Found dead,   4/ 5 mo., Coningbeg Lt.-ship.
  Swift,         Leg and wing,       "         22/ 5 mo., Tuskar.
  Hoopoe,              "          Shot,        12/ 4 mo., Eagle Island, East.
  Rock Pigeon,   Rec'd. in flesh,    "         19/10 mo., Tuskar.
  Turtle Dove,   Leg and wing,       "         27/ 6 mo., Blackrock, Mayo.
  Corncrake,           "          Found dead,   1/ 5 mo., Mine Head.
     "                 "             "         16/ 6 mo., Skelligs.
  Spotted Crake,       "          Caught,      21/ 8 mo., Tearaght.
  Water Rail,    Skin received,   Killed st.,   6/11 mo., Coningbeg Lt.-ship.
     "           Leg and wing,    Found dead   14/11 mo., Tuskar.
     "                 "          Killed st.,   8/11 mo., Hook Tower.
     "           Rec'd. in flesh,    "         11/11 mo., Rockabill.
     "           Leg and wing,       "         12/11 mo., Innishtrahull.
     "                 "          Caught,      16/11 mo., Tory Island.
     "           Rec'd. in flesh, Shot,        19/11 mo., Tearaght.
  Bald Coot,     Leg and wing,    Killed st.,  22/ 9 mo., Arklow S. Lt.-ship.
  Green Plover,        "             "         16/ 2 mo., Rockabill.
  Woodcock,            "             "         11/11 mo., Tuskar.
  Jack Snipe,          "          Found dead,   7/10 mo.,    "
     "                 "          Caught,      11/11 mo.,    "


Legs, Wings, etc., Received--continued.


                                       How                  Name of
  Species.         How Received.   Procured.     Date.      Station.

  Jack Snipe,      Leg and wing,    Killed st., 10/10 mo., Arklow S. Lt.-sh.
  Whimbrel,        Rec'd. in flesh, Shot,       29/11 mo., Fastnet.
  Common Tern,     Leg and wing,    Killed st.,  6/10 mo., Coningbeg Lt.-sh.
  Manx Shearwater,    "                "        15/ 5 mo.,    "
     "             Rec'd. in flesh,    "        10/ 5 mo., Howth Baily.
  Fork-tailed      Skin received,   Caught,     15/11 mo., Blackrock, Mayo.
    Petrel,
     "             Rec'd. in flesh,    "        21/ 6 mo., Tearaght.
  Stormy Petrel,   Leg and wing,       "        21/ 9 mo., Coningbeg Lt.-sh.
     "                "             Killed st., 15/ 9 mo., Tory Island.
  White-fronted                     Shot,        3/ 5 mo., Rathlin O'Birne.
    Goose,
  Brent Goose,        "                "        10/ 7 mo.,    "


List of Birds Noticed.

                               PAGE                                PAGE
  Eagles,                       122 | Greenfinch,                   145
  Greenland Falcon,             122 | Goldfinch,                    146
  Hawks,                        122 | Siskin,                       146
  Owls,                         123 | "Redpole,"                    146
  Spotted Flycatcher,           124 | "Linnets,"                    147
  Red-breasted Flycatcher,      124 | "Twite,"                      148
  Pied Flycatcher,              124 | "Bullfinch,"                  148
  Missel Thrush,                124 | Starling,                     148
  Thrush,                       125 | Chough,                       152
  Redwing,                      127 | Raven,                        153
  Fieldfare,                    128 | Hooded Crow,                  153
  Blackbird,                    129 | Rook,                         154
  Ring Ouzel,                   132 | Jackdaw,                      155
  Hedge Sparrow,                132 | Magpie,                       155
  Robin,                        132 | Swallow,                      155
  Redstart,                     133 | Sand Martin,                  157
  Black Redstart,               133 | Swift,                        157
  "Stonechat,"                  134 | Nightjar,                     157
  Wheatear,                     134 | Cuckoo,                       157
  Sedge Warbler,                135 | Hoopoe,                       157
  Whitethroat,                  135 | "Woodpecker,"                 157
  Willow Wren,                  135 | "Pigeons,"                    157
  Golden-crested Wren,          136 | Turtle Dove,                  158
  Wren,                         136 | Corncrake,                    158
  "Tits,"                       136 | Spotted Crake,                158
  Wagtail,                      137 | Water Rail,                   158
  Titlark,                      137 | Water Hen,                    159
  Skylark,                      138 | Bald Coot,                    159
  Woodlark,                     141 | "Ringed Dotterel,"            159
  Snow Bunting,                 141 | Golden Plover,                159
  Lapland Bunting,              142 | Green Plover,                 160
  Reed or Black-headed Bunting, 142 | Oyster-catcher,               161
  Yellow Bunting,               142 | Woodcock,                     161
  Chaffinch,                    143 | Common Snipe and Jack Snipe,  161
  Brambling,                    144 | "Sand Larks,"                 162
  Sparrow,                      145 | Redshank,                     163


List of Birds Noticed--continued.

                               PAGE                                PAGE
  "Greenshank,"                 163 | Puffin,                       169
  Curlew,                       163 | "Great Northern Diver,"       170
  Whimbrel,                     164 | Cormorant and Shag,           170
  "Terns,"                      164 | Gannet,                       171
  "Gulls,"                      165 | Heron,                        172
  Great Shearwater,             166 | "Geese."                      173
  Manx Shearwater,              166 | "Swans,"                      174
  Fork-tailed Petrel,           167 | "Ducks,"                      174
  Stormy Petrel,                168 | Birds not identified,         175
  Razorbill and Guillemot,      168 |


Eagles.

_Samphire Island._--November 14th, two "White-tailed Eagles" going
inland at noon; wind light N.W.

_Tearaght._--December 4th, one Eagle. This bird had a white tail.


Greenland Falcon (_Falco candicans_, Gmel.).

_Skelligs._--September 28th, one "Jer Falcon," 4.30 P.M.; wind strong
N. Shot at 5 P.M. while feeding on a rabbit. [Received a magnificent
old male Greenland Falcon in the flesh.]


Hawks.

_Fastnet._--March 14th, "one Hawk larger than a Sparrow Hawk, but
not so large as a Falcon, and of a deep brown colour," on rock; wind
fresh N.W. May 1st, one "Kite" going S. October 23d, one "small Hawk,"
remained three days on rock. November 16th, one "Kestrel Hawk" flying
S.W.

_Mine Head._--April 15th, eggs taken from Peregrine's nest. Laid again
and reared young birds.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--September 29th, one Hawk about ship, 9.30
A.M.; wind light N.E., clear. November 8th, one Sparrow Hawk flying
N.W.; wind N.E., strong.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--May 26th, one "Sparrow Hawk and a Wren lit
on deck together," but flew away on trying to catch them, 11 A.M.; wind
N.E., fresh, clear.

_Tuskar._--March 4th, one "Hawk" at 10 A.M., wind E.; 9th, two "Hawks"
at noon, wind S.; 16th, one "Hawk," 10 A.M., wind strong. October 8th,
one "Hawk" going N.W. December 5th, one "Hawk" on rock.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--March 26th, two "Hawks" going W.; gloomy.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--November 4th, one "Hawk" going S., noon;
wind fresh N., clear.

_Rockabill._--January 15th, one "Sparrow Hawk" about rock, 9 A.M.

_Innishtrahull._--April 11th, two "Merlin Hawks" on island, wind light
S.E.; 16th, two, one shot. May 8th, one.

_Dunree Head._--January 19th, February 20th, June 13th, one Hawk seen.
August 4th and 10th, one.

_Tory Island._--April 3d, "two Falcon Hawks" about island. May 15th,
"two Sparrow Hawks" do. Hawks breed here.

_Arranmore._--March 23d, one Sparrow Hawk. April 6th, one Peregrine.
June 1st, one Kestrel. October 1st, Falcon and Kestrel seen. A pair of
Falcons, Kestrels, and Sparrow Hawks breed here annually.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--June 29th, "two Sparrow Hawks" on island. I have
seen them kill several small birds.

_Broadhaven._--"Sparrow Hawk" resident. Noted October 7th, December
13th.

_Eagle Island, W._--February 2d to 8th, large Hawk about island.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--January 11th, 1888, two Falcons soaring.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 11th, one "Falcon Hawk" here every day at
times.

_Arran Island, N._--November 19th, two "Peregrine Hawks."

_Arran Island, S._--October 9th, two "Sparrow Hawks" chased a small
bird, which flew into dwellings.

_Tearaght._--October 19th, one Merlin shot. [Received in flesh.]

_Skelligs._--Peregrine breed here. Two to four seen in September.
October 15th, one Sparrow Hawk, 9 A.M.; wind light N.E. November 7th,
two Peregrines.


Owls.

_Mine Head._--July 26th, one seen.

_Tuskar._--March 20th, two "Owls at 11 A.M." going N.E.; wind light
S.E., hazy. November 13th, one shot on rock, 11.30 A.M.; wind light
E., overcast. [Leg and wing of Long-eared Owl received.]

_Slyne Head, S._--March 8th, one "Grey Owl" on island. October 19th,
one owl on island, "grey, white, and yellow coloured." November 5th, do.

_Arran Island, N._--October 18th, one "Brown Owl" shot at noon.


Spotted Flycatcher (_Muscicapa grisola_, Linn.).

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--September 21st, one killed striking. [Leg and
wing received.]

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--June 1st, flock of small birds flying N.W.,
9 A.M.; calm, thick haze, one killed against rigging. [Leg and wing of
Spotted Flycatcher received.]

_Tearaght._--October 2d, one Flycatcher shot 11 A.M.; wind light N.E.
[Leg and wing of Spotted Flycatcher received.]


Red-breasted Flycatcher (_Muscicapa parva_, Bech.).

_Arklow South Light-ship._--October 23d, "several small birds about
lantern 7 P.M. to 5 A.M.; wind fresh S.W., gloomy; several killed and
fell overboard; two sent by post." [Red-breasted Flycatcher and Black
Redstart received in flesh.--R. M. B.]


Pied Flycatcher (_Muscicapa atricapilla_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--April 12th, a small bird on rock, name unknown; wind light
S.E., hazy. "This is the same sort as the one I sent the leg and wing
of (in 1886) which you thought was a Flycatcher; was unable to capture
it." [A Pied Flycatcher's leg and wing was forwarded by Mr Dunleavy on
October 5th, 1886. See Report for 1886, p. 128.]


Missel Thrush (_Turdus viscivorus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--March 2d, 1.30 A.M., one striking, "seemed a very large
size;" wind light S.W., hazy; 4th, two about light, 7 A.M., one killed
striking, a large size; wind light S.E., hazy.

_Tuskar._--November 12th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]
Wind light E., cloudy.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 20th, three on rock; wind light N.; 24th,
one at lantern, 10 P.M.; gale from W. November 9th, one on rock; wind
fresh N.E.; 10th; several about lantern at night, one caught.


Thrush (_Turdus musicus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--November 12th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]

_Old Head, Kinsale._--January 10th, a flock flying N. October 5th, a
great many flying E.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 3d, one found dead on deck. [Leg and
wing received.] March 19th, flocks about lantern, 9 P.M. to midnight;
some killed striking. [Leg and wing received.] Gloomy; wind light E.
September 19th, four going S., 7 A.M., clear; wind light N.E. October
21st, 22d, and 23d, Thrushes about lantern at night; wind light,
overcast; 24th, three on ship; 25th, one. November 6th, one killed
striking. [Received in flesh.] November 7th, two on ship and others
about lantern at night; 8th, 10th, 11th, 13th, 14th, about lantern;
two killed striking on 11th, and on 13th and 14th many killed and fell
overboard; weather generally gloomy; wind E.; but night of 14th is
entered clear; on 12th and 15th, one or two about ship in daytime. (See
under Starling.) 21st, three about light, 10 P.M. to midnight; wind
fresh S.E., rain; 22d, one at lantern, 9 P.M. December 23d, several
at lantern, midnight to 4 A.M.; wind fresh N.W., showers; some killed
striking.

_Tuskar._--February 19th, numbers about lantern at night; very clear,
wind W.; five killed striking. [Wing of Thrush received.] March 2d,
three on balcony, 10 P.M. to 4 A.M.; calm, hazy; 9th, three at lantern,
10 P.M., two dead. March 10th, four on rock, 10 P.M.; 11th, some at
lantern; wind fresh S., hazy; 20th, great rush, several at lantern,
four killed striking; wind light, hazy. October 8th, one rested on
rock; 21st, numbers at lantern, four killed; wind light, clear. [Leg
and wing received.] 23d, going in twos and threes for land, all
morning; wind fresh S.W., clear. November 2d, two killed striking; 3d,
several striking, some killed; 4th, 10th, 11th, 14th, countless numbers
at lantern; 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 12th, 13th, 23d, many at lantern; 5th,
16th, a few at lantern; and see under Blackbird, observations entered
there for November also apply to Thrush as to time of striking,
numbers killed, etc. December 30th, two going N.W.

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--October 22d, great number at lantern,
midnight; gloomy, wind light S.E.; several killed striking. November
12th, four "Garden Thrushes" killed striking, 11.30 P.M.; gloomy.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 16th and 19th, several about
lantern, 10 P.M.; wind light S.W., gloomy; two killed. March 21st, one
killed striking, 2 A.M. [Leg and wing received.] October 21st, about
lantern, 12 to 3 A.M.; wind light, gloomy; one killed striking; also
10 P.M. to 7 A.M. on 22d, about lantern, cloudy. "This time of year
with W. or S.W. winds, and gloomy or rainy weather, I always see great
numbers of birds from the Welsh shore about lantern." 26th, about
lantern, 3 to 4 A.M.; wind fresh S.W., gloomy. November 11th, about
lantern, 7 P.M. to 4 A.M.; one dead on deck. [Leg and wing received.]
14th, flock, 11 A.M., going N.W.; 21st, one killed striking, 9 P.M.;
wind fresh, rain.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 19th, March 2d, and December 3d,
two killed striking on each occasion. October 7th and 19th, going N.W.
in morning; wind N.; on 12th, 20th, and December 7th, about lantern at
night.

_Howth Baily._--November 12th, large numbers at lantern, midnight to 4
A.M.; many killed, fog.

_Rockabill._--January 3d, 5th, and 6th, February 17th and 20th,
Thrushes on rock; wind S.W. to N.W., strong. (See also under Skylark.)

_South Rock Light-ship._--November 13th, one killed striking, 4 A.M.

_South Maidens._--October 12th, two killed striking; wind strong N.

_North Maidens._--October 16th, constantly striking, 9 to 12 P.M.; wind
fresh N.W., cloudy; twelve killed; 17th, do., three killed striking;
21st, 9 P.M. to 1 A.M., striking; wind N.W.; two killed.

_Innishtrahull._--March 28th, two at lantern, 9 to 11 P.M.; wind light
W. October 17th, one striking glass, 11 P.M.; wind light N.W. November
11th, two at lantern all night; wind light E., dark. Birds scarce this
winter; not a Thrush to be seen from middle November until 16th January
1888. Blackbirds and Thrushes seem coming back now (16th January 1888),
as I saw about two dozen this evening.

_Dunree Head._--December 14th, fourteen going S.W.

_Tory Island._--March 11th, a few about light, 1 A.M.; wind N.W.,
strong. They do not breed here. October 16th to 20th, numbers at
lantern, some killed striking; cloudy. (See note under Blackbird for
this station.)

_Arranmore._--October 14th, about light all night; four caught; 22d,
one caught at lantern, 10 P.M.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--November 14th, eight going W. Did not remain on
island.

_Killybegs._--November 18th, 21st, 23d, and 28th, one to six.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 17th, six on island; 19th, several; 21st, at
lantern all night, twelve killed striking; overcast, wind light S.E.
November 4th, several; 9th to 13th, do.; on night of 10th, numbers at
lantern, and numbers of birds [Thrushes?] on nights of 12th and 13th.
December 2d, several on island.

_Arran Island, N._--February 19th, two on island. October 10th, five.
December 24th, five; 30th, several on rock.

_Arran Island, S._--October 23d, flocks at 4 A.M.; eight killed
striking, "female birds;" wind light N.E., cloudy. November 1st,
Thrushes and Blackbirds, plenty on island; 13th, Blackbirds, Wagtails,
Tits, Thrushes, and Robins, plenty on island.

_Tearaght._--March 26th, Starlings and Thrushes which were here during
winter months left on this date. October 28th, one shot. [Leg and wing
received.]

_Skelligs._--October 19th, two all day; wind light S.W., misty.
November 7th, about fifty.


Redwing (_Turdus iliacus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 17th, one struck, 2 A.M.; gloomy, wind light S.E.;
21st, numbers around light; clear, wind light E.; 22d, all day on rock;
wind light S., hazy. November 12th, large numbers striking all night,
two killed, several captured asleep on rock; wind light S.E., gloomy.
[Leg and wing of Redwing received.] 13th, four going N.E.; 14th,
several around light, 1 A.M. to daylight; clear, wind light E.; 17th,
numbers about light; hazy, wind light S.W.

_Mine Head._--October 16th, first seen since spring, plentiful all
winter. November 10th, several seen about lantern, one killed; 12th,
some about lantern; gloomy, wind E.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--November 18th, one at 11 A.M.; wind fresh W.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 8th, three going N. at noon. November
11th, Redwings going N., 7 P.M.; wind light E., gloomy; one killed
striking, 10 P.M. [Leg and wing received.] 12th, going N, midnight to 5
A.M.; wind light E., gloomy; also from 8 P.M. to midnight, one killed
striking; 13th, going N., midnight to 4 A.M.; wind light S.E., gloomy;
a few about light all night.

_Tuskar._--March 3d, about thirty "Redwing Thrushes" on balcony all
night; wind light E., cloudy, one killed. October 17th, two killed
striking, 3 A.M. [Received legs and wings.] Wind light N.W., clear;
23d, numbers at lantern, 3 A.M., one killed striking; clear, wind
fresh. November 12th, great many round lantern, some killed. [Leg and
wing received.] December 11th, about lantern, 11 P.M. to 6 A.M., calm,
one killed striking; 22d, great numbers about light, 1 to 3 A.M.,
eleven killed striking. [Leg and wing received.] Wind light W., cloudy;
25th, one on rock.

_North Maidens._--October 21st, striking, 9 P.M. to 1 A.M.; wind N.W.,
fresh, two killed.

_Innishtrahull._--November 12th, one killed striking, 4 A.M.; calm,
dark. [Leg and wing received.]

_Tory Island._--October 16th to 20th, numbers about lantern all night;
some killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 9th, one round lantern; wind N.E.; 10th,
some at lantern, wind N.E., gloomy.

_Slyne Head, S._--November 13th, one on island. December 2d and 30th,
two.

_Skelligs._--November 5th, two all day.


Fieldfare (_Turdus pilaris_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--December 19th, one shot. [Leg and wing received.]

_Tuskar._--October 24th, one killed striking, 10 P.M., clear but
squally; wind N. November 7th, one found dead on rock. [Leg and wing
received.] 9th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]

_North Maidens._--October 21st, constantly striking 9 P.M. to 1 A.M.,
two killed.

_Tory Island._--October 16th to 20th, a few at lantern at night, six
"killed striking. [Legs and wings of two received.]

_Arranmore._--November 7th, some near station all day.

_Broadhaven._--December 5th, ten. "Numerous this season."

_Eagle Island, W._--November 11th, bird killed striking. "I have seen
none like it before." [Fieldfare received in flesh.]

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 2d, one on rock; wind fresh S.W.; 21st,
one; wind fresh S.E.

_Slyne Head, S._--November 1st, 4th, 8th, and 11th, one to four on
island.

_Arran Island, N._--October 8th, two.

_Arran Island, S._--November 8th, two; first this year.

_Tearaght._--November 7th, several Fieldfares.


Blackbird (_Turdus merula_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--March 2d, one female, 1.30 A.M., striking; wind light S.W.,
hazy; 10th, several females on rock at noon; clear, wind light S.E.
From 2d to 9th March, while on shore, observed numbers of what seemed
female Blackbirds flying S. in evenings. (See under Starling.) March
13th, Blackbirds, Thrushes, Fieldfares, Starlings, and small birds seem
very numerous this winter on shore. October 16th, one struck, 10 P.M.;
gloomy, wind light E. October 24th, numbers around lantern all night;
clear, wind fresh N.E. November 10th, numbers at lantern, several
struck; wind light S.E.

_Old Head, Kinsale._--January 10th, six alighted; wind fresh W. October
25th, several flying N.; wind E., light.

_Mine Head._--March 7th, one seen. November 13th, one killed striking.

_Hook Tower._--July 16th, one killed striking, 2 A.M. [Leg and wing
received.]

_Coningbeg light-ship._--February 20th, one killed striking. [Leg and
wing received.] March 3d, one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]
March 20th, flocks about lantern, midnight to 4 A.M., some killed
striking--[Leg and wing received]--snow showers, wind light N.E.
September 17th, five flying S., 7 A.M.; clear, wind light N.E. October
6th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.] 21st, about light, 6
P.M. to midnight; 22d and 23d, about light, 9 P.M. to midnight; 24th,
three on ship; wind fresh N.E.; 26th; one on ship. November 4th, one
do.; 7th, two on ship and numbers about light, 7 to 10 P.M.; wind
N.E., fresh, showery; 8th, about lantern; wind fresh E.; 9th, one in
daytime; on 10th, 11th, 13th, 14th, and 15th, about lantern at night,
four killed striking on 11th, and several killed and fell overboard
on 13th and 14th; wind S.E. to N.E., gloomy at night, except on 14th;
on 12th, two going N.W. in daytime; 15th, some about ship. (See under
Starling.)

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--November 9th, some going N., 8 to 11 P.M.;
wind fresh N.E., cloudy; 10th, three going N., 8.30 A.M.; one rested on
ship; wind light N.E., clear; 12th, some going N., midnight to 5 A.M.;
wind light E., gloomy; one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]

_Tuskar._--February 19th, numbers at lantern at night; wind W., very
clear; two cocks killed striking. [Wing received.] March 3d, Blackbirds
appeared in large numbers at night, many wounded, five found dead; wind
E., fresh, cloudy; 8th, two at night; 9th, two on balcony, 9.30 P.M.;
10th, three on rock all night; calm, clear; 20th, many at lantern,
three killed striking; wind light S.E., hazy. October 5th, one on rock;
wind fresh N.E.; 21st, numbers at lantern, two killed striking; wind
light N.E., clear. [Leg and wing received.] 23d, numbers about light,
two killed striking; 27th, one at 10 A.M. going N.W. During November
enormous numbers of Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Starlings passed the
Tuskar light. Blackbirds are entered thus in schedule: A few on 2d,
5th, 6th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, and 30th; several on 3d, 7th,
8th, and 9th; on 7th, one caught at lantern. [Leg and wing received.]
Countless numbers on 4th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th, and 23d. Most
birds were killed striking, 4th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th. _All
the birds killed up to the 14th were killed at N.W. or land side of
lantern._ In the beginning of November the birds passed between 6 and
9 P.M.; on the 11th, they first passed all night; wind westerly strong
to the 5th, easterly fresh, 5th to 14th. Most birds killed on cloudy
nights. Migration up to 14th took place at night. On the 2d and 4th, it
is remarked that the Blackbirds passing were chiefly females. December
7th, one at lantern; 11th, several about lantern, 11 P.M. to 6 A.M.;
wind light N.E.; 18th, one at noon; 22d, a few about light, 1 to 3
A.M., one killed striking; wind light W.; 25th, 26th, and 27th, one or
two noted on rock.

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--October 11th, one going W. rested on
ship. November 13th, one caught at lantern, 8 P.M.; overcast.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--January 29th, five, 10 P.M.; wind light
S.W., cloudy. March 3d, some about lantern, midnight to 4 A.M.; wind
light, cloudy. October 26th, about lantern, 3 to 4 A.M.; wind fresh
S.W. November 11th, several about lantern, 7 P.M. to 4 A.M., many fell
overboard; 14th, one caught at lantern, 9 P.M.; wind light. [Leg and
wing received.]

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 7th, one killed striking; wind
fresh S.E., hazy. October 16th, two killed striking; 18th, great flocks
about lantern, some killed; wind light W., overcast. December 10th,
a quantity; 13th, 14th, 15th, 21st, about lantern, midnight; wind
generally strong, snow or rain; some killed striking.

_Howth Baily._--November 12th, large numbers at lantern, midnight to 4
A.M., many killed striking; fog.

_Rockabill._--January 3d, 5th, and 6th, Blackbirds on rock; wind S. to
N.W., strong. February 16th, about lantern, 1 A.M.; wind S., light,
misty; 20th, a few on rock; wind N.W., fresh. (See also under Skylark.)
November 10th. (See under Starling.)

_Maidens, N._--October 16th, constantly striking, 9 to 12 P.M.,
thirty-six killed; wind fresh N.W., cloudy; 17th, five killed striking;
21st, constantly striking, 9 to 1 A.M.; wind light N.W. Five males and
twenty-one females killed.

_Rathlin Island._--December 10th, two dozen at lantern midnight;
stormy, wind S.; two killed striking.

_Innishtrahull._--March 28th, one at lantern 9 to 11 P.M.; wind light
W. October 24th, one on island 9 A.M.; wind N.W., stormy. November
11th, one striking lantern; wind light E., dark. (See note under Thrush
for this station.)

_Tory Island._--From October 16th to 20th large numbers, with
Starlings, Thrushes, and Larks about lantern at night; weather cloudy;
ten killed striking. [Leg and wing of Blackbird received, killed on
16th.] Also in numbers during November, December, and January 1888 in
daytime, but not at lantern.

_Arranmore._--November 7th, some near station all day.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--October 31st, two on island; gale from S.

_Killybegs._--November 7th and 28th, one.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 20th, two on rock; wind light~ N. November
9th, two do.; wind strong E.; 10th, Blackbirds during night about
lantern, one caught. [Leg and wing received.] 12th, one caught at
lantern.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 27th, one all day on island; wind strong S.W.
November 1st and 4th, one; 9th to 12th, several on island. On night
of 10th numbers at lantern, and on nights of 12th and 13th numbers of
birds [Blackbirds?] at lantern; 12th, one killed striking. December 2d
and 30th, two on island.

_Arran Island, N._--October 17th, five. December 21st, six; 30th, some
on rock.

_Arran Island, S._--October 23d, one killed striking, 4 A.M. November
1st, plenty on island; 13th, great numbers of Blackbirds on island,
principally females; calm, hazy. "Wagtails, Tits, Thrushes, and
Robins," plenty also.

_Skelligs._--January 10th, one; 20th to 26th, two. October 5th, one
on island, female; 19th, six all day, females; wind light S.W.; 24th,
four. November 7th, flock all day; wind light N.E.; 18th, four on
island. December 28th, five.


Ring Ouzel (_Turdus torquatus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--September 22d, one about light, 8 P.M.; wind fresh S.E.,
gloomy. Caught and let go again. Size and shape of female Blackbird,
white crescent on breast.

_Mine Head._--March 7th, one seen, and several times afterwards.

_Tuskar._--September 21st, one killed striking, 3.30 A.M.; wind light
S.E., hazy. [Received in flesh.]

_Skelligs._--March 4th, two Bing Ouzels; 6th, one.


Hedge Sparrow (_Accentor modularis_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--October 16th, one or two always about.

_Tuskar._--March 3d, about twenty "Hedge Sparrows" on rock night and
day; wind fresh E., cloudy; two killed striking; 10th, three on rock;
calm, clear.

_Skelligs._--October 13th, one at 10 A.M.; wind light N.E.


Robin (_Erithacus rubecula_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 25th, one all day on rock; wind fresh N.E., clear.

_Mine Head._--November 22d, one killed against wall.

_Tuskar._--March 8th, two Robins about all day; wind light S.E., cloudy.

_Arranmore._--January 12th, 1888, two Robins near station.

_Killybegs._--October 22d, one seen.

_Slyne Read, S._--October 24th, one Robin Redbreast all day on island.

_Arran Island, N._--December 8th, two all day.

_Arran Island, S._--November 13th. (See note under Blackbird at this
station.)

_Skelligs._--October 19th, one all day; wind light S.W., misty.


Redstart (_Ruticilla phœnicurus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 5th, one caught at lantern, 8 P.M.; wind light
S.E., gloomy. [Received in flesh.]

_Rockabill._--August 26th, "shot a male Redstart." [Was this a common
or Black Redstart? See Report for 1886, p. 136.]


Black Redstart (_Ruticilla titys_, Scopoli).

_Fastnet._--April 12th, one on rock, 4 P.M.; calm, hazy. October 19th,
one on rock, 5 P.M.; wind light S.W., gloomy; very brilliant plumage.
One at 8 P.M. caught in store. [Received in flesh.]

_Mine Head._--October 25th to 27th, one Redstart in garden. December
19th, one.

_Hook Tower._--March 21st, one caught. [Received in flesh.]

_Arklow South Light-ship._--October 23d, one killed striking. [Received
in flesh.] (See note under Red-breasted Flycatcher.)

_Blackrock, Mayo._--March 28th, "small bird, the size of a Robin, dark
slate-colour all over, with the exception of the base of the tail,
which was reddish-brown." [Probably above species.] November 5th, one
Black Redstart on rock; wind strong S.; 11th, one.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 20th, "one slate-coloured Wren with a long
tail" on island. [Black Redstart?]

_Samphire Island._--December 31st, "saw this morning a bird about the
size of the Common Wren--perhaps it may have been a little larger--of a
dusky olive colour all over, but a little lighter on the breast; black
bill and legs; when wings were expanded it was a bright red from wings
to butt of tail." [Can the birds seen at this station and Slyne Head be
Black Redstarts?]

_Tearaght._--October 20th, ten Black Redstarts--one shot. [Leg and wing
received.] November 1st, one.

_Skelligs._--October 20th, one shot; wind light S.E., gloomy. [Received
in flesh.] 23d, one found dead. [Leg and wing received.]


"Stonechat."

_Fastnet._--October 20th, "one Blackcap" dead on rock; wind light W.
[Stonechat received in flesh.]

_Old Head, Kinsale._--April 10th, "three Stonechats arrived;" wind
fresh E.; 12th, ten seen; wind strong E.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 11th, one "Chit-chat" about lantern;
wind N. gale, clear; 16th, three "Chit-chats" about ship 1 A.M.; wind
fresh N.E., clear.

_Innishtrahull._--April 9th, two all night at lantern; wind light E.,
misty.

_Tory Island._--March 12th, some "Stonechats" about island; breed here.
October 16th to 20th, a few "Stonechats" about lantern.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--April 2d, five "Stonechats;" wind light W., misty.
Breed here, and remain until August. 4th, four.

_Tearaght._--October 8th, one seen on island.


Wheatear (_Saxicola ænanthe_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--April 10th, one on rock; wind strong S.E. September 22d,
six about light; wind fresh S.E., gloomy; 23d, numbers about light,
8.30 P.M. to 1 A.M.; wind fresh S.E., gloomy.

_Mine Head._--March 30th, several--the first observed this year.

_Tuskar._--March 15th, one on lantern, 6 P.M., caught; wind strong
N.E., clear. [Received in flesh.] 25th, two on rock. August 16th and
17th, one all day; 22d, one found dead; hazy. September 17th and 18th,
one all day on rock.

_Arranmore._--March 30th, two Wheatears. April 4th, six seen. May 12th,
one killed striking.

_Tearaght._--April 20th, seen for first time. September 24th, not seen
after this date.

_Skelligs._--March 16th, four--first this year. Breed here. October
8th, several seen--one shot; wind light N.


Sedge Warbler (_Acrocephalus shœnobænus_, Linn.).

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 15th, three "small birds" about lantern, 2
A.M.; rain, calm; one killed. [Leg and wing of Sedge Warbler received.]
30th, six "small birds" about lantern, midnight to 3 A.M.; gloomy, wind
fresh N.E.; one killed.

_Hook Tower._--May 11th, 12th, 16th, and 17th, some striking, 11 P.M.
to 1 am.; twelve killed. (See under Whitethroat.) [Leg and wing of
Sedge Warbler received.]

_Tuskar Rock._--May 14th, ten "Chiffchaffs" killed striking; wind fresh
N.E., clear. [Probably Sedge Warblers.] October 6th, one "Reed Warbler"
killed striking, 10 P.M.; wind light E., cloudy. [Leg and wing of Sedge
Warbler received.]

_Arklow North Light-ship._--September 21st, "Wrens" about ship in
morning. [Possibly above species.] Wind light N.E., hazy.


Whitethroat (_Sylvia rufa_, Bodd.).

_Mine Head._--May 16th, one found killed in dome of lighthouse. [Leg
and wing received.] May 27th, one caught; fog. September 20th, one
caught striking, 11 P.M. [Leg and wing received.] 21st, one found
killed.

_Hook Tower._--May 11th, "Whitethroats and Sedge Warblers" constantly
striking; twenty-five killed; wind strong N.W., clear; 12th do.; ten
killed; wind strong N., clear; 16th do.; eighteen killed; wind light
K, clear; 17th, a few striking; three killed; wind light E. On each
date the birds struck from 11 P.M. to 1 am. In all, only twelve Sedge
Warblers killed.

_Tuskar._--May 14th, thirteen killed striking; wind fresh N.E., clear.


Willow Wren (_Phylloscopus trochilus_, Linn.).

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 22d, one "small bird" caught on deck, 1
P.M.; clear, wind fresh N. [Leg and wing of Willow Wren received.]
October 25th, a "Wood Warbler" on ship.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--April 24th, one found dead on deck, 5 A.M.
[Leg and wing of Willow Wren received.]

_Tearaght._--April 13th.--[Wing of Willow Wren received.]


Golden-Crested Wren (_Regulus cristatus_, Koch).

_Fastnet._--October 8th, one around light, 1 A.M.; wind light N.W.,
gloomy.

_Mine Head._--September 16th, "a Golden-crested Wren?"

_Rockabill._--November 10th, "no Goldcrests this year. I think they
were all killed three years ago, when they fell here in scores."

_South Maidens._--October 7th, one at lantern, 11 P.M.; wind fresh W.

_Arran Island, S._--October 24th, one on balcony 10 P.M.; wind light S.
November 11th, one at 4 A.M., disabled striking; stopped on balcony;
wind E., very light, hazy.

_Tearaght._--October 22d, one shot. [Leg and wing received.]


Wren (_Troglodytes parvulus_, Koch).

_Fastnet._--October 5th, one all day on rock; wind light N.E., gloomy;
15th and 17th, one all day.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--May 26th, one. (See under Hawk.)

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--October 5th, one "Wren" rested on deck,
and new to land; wind light N.E.

_Tuskar._--One seen at intervals on rock during October.

_Innishtrahull._--November 14th, 15th, 16th, 30th, and December 6th,
one noticed on island.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--April 28th, one "Common Wren" on island.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 21st, two "Common Wrens" during day; wind
fresh S.E.; also noted November 2d, 16th, and January 11th, 1888.
[Possibly resident.]

_Slyne Head, S._--October 11th, one on island; 29th, one, and two to
four at intervals to December 30th. [Probably residents.]

_Arran Island, N._--October 21st, two.

_Skelligs._--March 6th, two.


"Tits."

_Mine Head._--March 10th, one Blue Tit shot. [Leg and wing received.]

_Arran Island, S._--(See note under Blackbird at this station.)


Wagtail.

_Fastnet._--February 27th, one "Water Wagtail" all day; wind fresh
S.S.W., hazy; 28th; one found dead on rock; supposed to be one seen
yesterday. [Leg and wing of Pied Wagtail received.] March 6th, two on
rock, 10 A.M.; foggy, wind light S.E. October 17th, one all day on
rock; wind light S.E., gloomy.

_Mine Head._--March 7th, one seen.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--September 25th, one going N.E., 5 P.M.; wind
light S.W., hazy. October 8th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing of
Grey Wagtail received.]

_Tuskar._--March 9th, one on rock, 3 P.M.; wind light W., cloudy.
September 22d, one caught. [Leg and wing of Pied Wagtail received.]

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--October 5th, four going N.W., 7 A.M.

_Tory Island._--June 15th, two about island.

_Arranmore._--April 27th, two seen.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 11th, three "Grey Wagtails" on island; wind
strong N.

_Arran Island, N._--February 12th, two remained a month. October 27th,
two "Grey Wagtails" all day.

_Arran Island, S._--November 13th. (See note under Blackbird at this
Station.)

_Tearaght._--March 30th, a "White Wagtail" here for past fortnight;
not seen after this date. October 9th, one on island; 20th, one
"Grey-headed Wagtail" shot.

_Skelligs._--March 4th, one Wagtail. October 4th, one "Grey Wagtail" on
island; wind light S.E.


Titlark (_Anthus pratensis_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--March 6th, one found dead on rock at noon; foggy, wind
light S.E.; 9th, one at 9 P.M., captured in lighthouse; wind light
S.E., clear. On the night of 4th and 5th March, numbers of small birds
about light, supposed to be Larks and Chaffinches. March 15th, one on
rock; wind fresh N.E. September 23d, numbers about light; wind fresh
S.E., gloomy. October 16th, one on rock; 20th, one; 22d, several all
day on rock; wind light S., hazy; 23d, several ditto; 25th, two.
November 9th to December 11th, one to four at intervals, on rock.

_Mine Head._--February 9th, one found killed.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 26th, flocks flying N.; rain, wind light
S.W.; 30th, twelve flying N.; clear, wind light N.E. September 21st,
some "Larks" about lantern, 8 P.M. to midnight; two killed striking.
[Received legs and wings of two Titlarks.] October 8th, one "Lark"
found dead, 3 P.M.; clear, wind light N.E. [Leg and wing of Titlark
received.] December 22d, one about ship.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 6th, small flocks going N., 10 A.M.;
calm, foggy; 21st, one going N. November 5th, flocks of Titlarks
passing N.W., 9 A.M. to noon; wind fresh W.

_Tuskar Rock._--September 18th, 21st, and October 6th, one or two seen.
November 12th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.] Wind light
S.E., cloudy.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--March 6th, 11th, 19th, 31st, some noted in
daytime; 18th, 22d, 26th, about lantern. September 21st, some about
ship.

_South Maidens._--"No birds seen for quarter ending September 30th
except a few Titlarks."

Tory Island.--March 12th, Titlarks about island; breed here.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--June 15th, nine Titlarks on island; remain all the
year.

_Killybegs._--Two to four noted about station October 11th to November
5th.

_Slyne Head, S._--On island all November.

_Skelligs._--January 20th to 26th, several; resident; breed here.
October 23d, one found dead. [Leg and wing received.]


Skylark (_Alauda arvensis_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--March 14th, one at noon; wind N.W.; 15th, two; wind N.E.,
fresh. October 15th, numbers, 8 P.M. to 11 P.M., about light; hazy;
several struck; 16th, one found dead. [Leg and wing received.] Numbers
striking all night; six killed; wind S.E., light, gloomy. October 21st,
numbers of "Larks" all night about lantern; clear; numbers striking,
none killed; wind light S.E.; 22d, several all day on rock; hazy.
November 10th, numbers of "Larks" about light, 1 A.M. to daylight; wind
light S.E.; 12th, two about light; gloomy. 1

_Old Head, Kinsale._--May 7th, great number; wind strong W. November
27th and 29th, several; going E.; wind W. December 6th, five; 14th,
several.

_Mine Head._--November 22d, one found killed on balcony.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--September 17th, 21st, and 23d, four to five
"Larks" flying N.E. October 6th, three "Larks" about lantern, 9 P.M.;
clear, wind light N.E.; 13th, five flying N., 11.30 A.M.; wind N.E.;
15th, two about ship, 7 A.M.; clear; 16th, a flock passing; 20th, seven
"Larks" seen; 23d, three about light; 25th, a flock going N.E. November
2d, two; 5th, some; 6th, four flocks going N.E.; wind light E.; 10th,
flock going N.; 11th, about lantern; gloomy; 12th, flocks going N. in
daytime; wind S.E., clear; 17th, one about ship; wind light S.W.; 24th,
six "Larks" flying S., 10 A.M.; wind light N.W., clear.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 8th, about twenty going N.; a few
Larks noted passing N. October 20th, 22d, and 23d. November 8th, Larks
going N. 8 P.M.; a few also noted passing N. on 9th, 10th, 16th, and
17th. _On 10th saw a Gull chasing one which seemed exhausted._

_Tuskar._--February 19th, one killed striking. [Wing of Skylark
received.] Weather very clear; wind fresh W. March 3d, three "Larks"
on rock, two died; wind fresh E., cloudy; 7th, three on rock, two died;
wind light S.E. September 20th, six on rock. October 6th, one; 19th,
numbers all night; three killed striking; wind light S.W., clear. [Leg
and wing received.] October 20th, twenty all day on rock; clear; 21st,
numbers striking at midnight, fifteen killed. [Leg and wing received.]
Wind light N.E., clear; 22d, twenty going N., 8 A.M.; wind S.E., light.
November 6th, five; 7th, four; 8th, six; 10th, a few; 11th, several,
one caught. [Leg and wing received.] November 12th, a few; 13th, great
numbers; 14th, countless numbers. (These entries refer to night, and
the Larks seem to have accompanied the Blackbirds and Thrushes, etc.;
particulars as to the number of _each_ species killed striking are
not given.) 23d, Larks at lantern, 2 A.M. to daylight; three killed
striking. December 11th, Larks about light, 11 P.M. to 6 A.M.; calm,
showery; 20th, one on rock; 22d, a flock going N.W., 1 P.M.

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--October 7th, a few rested, _one with
broken leg killed by Gulls_. November 24th, several about lantern, 4.30
A.M.; wind light, clear.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--January 23d and 24th, several at lantern,
1 A.M. to 4 A.M.; some killed on 23d; wind S.W., light, gloomy. March
18th, some going N.W., 5 to 6 A.M.; wind N.W., snow showers. September
16th, four, 10 A.M., going N.W.; 19th, a flock going N.W. October 21st,
about lantern, midnight to 3 A.M.; one killed striking; also 10 P.M.
to 4 A.M. on 22d, about lantern; one killed striking, cloudy; 29th and
30th, large flocks going N.W. about 11 A.M.; wind strong S.W. November
5th, flock going W.; wind S.W., light; 12th, one disabled.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--"Larks" noted at night, September 22d,
October 15th, 16th, 20th. In daytime, October 2d, 5th, 7th, 8th, 11th,
13th, 17th, 19th, 21st, 25th, 27th. On December 7th, 10th, 13th, 14th,
15th, 21st, and 28th, about lantern. General direction of flight N.W.
during October.

_Howth Baily._--October 15th, two "Larks" disabled striking; 26th,
about forty birds, "supposed to be Larks," going W. November 12th,
large numbers at lantern; many killed striking, midnight to 4 A.M.; fog.

_Rockabill._--January 5th, 6th, and February 17th, about rock; wind
variable. "October 3d, a few nights ago there was great rush of
Skylarks, Thrushes, Blackbirds, Snipe, and Landrail."

_South Rock Light-ship._--November 30th, one about ship.

_South Maidens._--October 12th and 13th, several at night; some killed
striking. November 10th, 28th, December 10th and 28th, one to three
noted.

_North Maidens._--October 21st, striking 9 P.M. to 1 A.M.; about one
hundred killed. November 14th, 9 to 11 P.M., striking, five killed;
stormy, wind N.E., overcast.

_Rathlin Island._--October 11th, one killed striking, midnight; foggy,
wind strong E.

_Innishtrahull._--March 19th, numbers of Larks striking lantern, 10
P.M. to midnight; wind light N.W., very dark; 20th, do., midnight to 4
A.M.; wind fresh S.E.; 28th, nine about lantern all night; wind light
S.W., very dark. October 16th, one at midnight striking. November 12th,
two striking at 4 A.M.

_Tory Island._--March 11th, a few about light, 1 A.M.; wind N.W.,
strong, clear. April 5th, Skylarks remain and breed here. October 16th
to 20th, numbers about lantern at night; seven killed striking; cloudy.
(See note under Blackbird for this station.) [Leg and wing of Skylark,
killed striking on 18th, received.]

_Arranmore._--October 9th, eight about station.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--Larks arrived about March 15th, and breed on
island; nearly all leave beginning of August and go to mainland. (See
under Titlark.)

_Killybegs._--Two to eight about station in October. November 16th, one
killed striking, midnight; a gale from S.W., misty.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 23d, one at lantern, 11.40 P.M.; wind fresh
S.W.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 21st, at lantern all night; eight killed
striking; wind light S.E.; 29th, two on island. November 1st to 9th,
several on island. Never saw so many without frost or snow.

_Arran Island, N._--November 8th, ten. December 12th, six.

_Skelligs._--October 1st, three; 19th, several all day.


Woodlark (_Alauda arborea_, Linn.).

_Tearaght._--October 20th, one Woodlark shot. [Received in flesh.]


Snow Bunting (_Plectrophanes nivalis_, Linn.).

_Tuskar._--March 18th, three on rock, 10 A.M.; wind light S.E., clear.

_Rockabill._--January 20th, two about rock, 11 A.M.; wind fresh N.W.,
clear.

_Rathlin Island._--October 24th, large flock of "Snow Buntings" passed
lantern at midnight.

_Innishtrahull._--March 24th and 25th, about one dozen on island each
day; stormy, wind N.W. April 24th, two at 11 A.M.; a gale, wind N.W.;
one very white. October 24th, ten on island; stormy, wind N.

_Arranmore._--March 18th, twenty going N. April 21st and 22d, two to
four going W. and N.W. October 6th, seven near station; wind light S.W.
November 7th, some near station.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--March 10th, twenty on island; gale, wind S., misty.
Remained till end of month. December 15th, three; 20th, six; a gale
from N.

_Broadhaven._--November 9th, "Lapland Bunting--cock and hen," noted.
[Snow Buntings?]

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 1st, one male Snow Bunting on rock, wind
strong S.W.; 4th, do.; wind N.W. December 24th, "It is remarkable that
but one or two Snow Bunting have visited the rock this winter."

_Arran Island, N._--November 14th, eleven.

_Arran Island, S._--October 28th, one at 4 P.M.; wind N.W., light.

_Tearaght._--May 3d, two shot by assistant keeper. [Leg and wing
received.] October 1st, two on island; wind N.E., light; 3d, one shot.


Lapland Bunting (_Plectrophanes lapponicus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 16th, "a Skylark and Twite (supposed) found dead on
rock, 9 A.M.; wind light E., clear." [The bird supposed to be a Twite
was forwarded in the flesh, and proved to be a female Lapland Bunting.]
The night of October 15th was hazy, with the wind light from N.E.; and
numbers of "Skylarks and Starlings" are stated to have been around the
lantern.


Reed or Black-Headed Bunting (_Emberiza schœniclus_, Linn.).

_Arklow South Light-ship._--November 12th, "several kinds large and
small birds at lantern, 7 P.M. to midnight; wind light S., gloomy."
[One Black-Headed Bunting and one Brambling received in flesh.]


Yellow Bunting (_Emberiza citrinella_, Linn.).

_Arklow South Light-ship._--November 13th, one caught at lantern; wind
light N. [Received in flesh.]

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 13th, one on rock, 10 A.M.; wind light S.

_North Maidens._--November 24th, one killed striking, 10 P.M.; wind
strong S.W., gloomy. [One received in flesh November 30th, probably
this specimen.]

_Arranmore._--January 8th, 1888, nine on island.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 13th, one on rock, 10 A.M.; wind light E.


Chaffinch (_Fringilla cœlebs_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--March 6th, one on rock, 10 A.M.; foggy, wind light E.;
11th, several all day; wind S.W., hazy. On the night of 4th and 5th
March, numbers of small birds about light, supposed to be Larks and
Chaffinches; 16th, one on rock. October 16th, numbers striking all
night, none killed; wind light S.E., gloomy; 17th, several on rock,
one found dead--[Leg and wing received]--gloomy, wind light E.; 23d,
several on rock all day; hazy, wind light W. November 9th, one on rock;
10th, one found dead--died from exhaustion; wind light S.E.; 11th,
numbers all night around lantern; wind light S.E., hazy; about twenty
at noon on rock; 12th, one captured in dwelling at 8 A.M.; four round
lantern at night; gloomy; 13th, three on rock, 9 A.M., clear; 17th,
thirty on rock at 8 A.M.; clear, wind light S.; 19th, one dead on rock;
squally, wind strong N.W.; 27th, one on rock; a gale from N.W. December
9th, one dead in tower; wind strong N.W. [Leg and wing received.]

_Mine Head._--October 16th, first seen since spring; plentiful all
winter; one caught at lantern. [Leg and wing received.] November 21st,
one killed striking.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 13th, one caught on deck, 10 A.M.; clear,
wind light N.E. [Leg and wing received.] September 21st, about lantern,
8 P.M. to midnight; hazy, wind light E.; three killed striking. October
8th, one killed striking, 9 P.M.; wind N.E., fresh, clear; 12th, two
about lantern; 16th, one going N.E., and at night one, and several
small birds about lantern; overcast, wind light N.; 19th and 21st, one
about ship; 22d and 23d, two or three about light. November 7th, three
on ship; 13th, one killed striking. [Received in flesh.] Wind light
S.E., gloomy; 17th, two about ship in day; wind light S.W., clear.
December 19th, two flying N., 10 A.M.; wind fresh N.W.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--October 29th, three going N., rested on
ship and went towards land; wind fresh W., clear. November 6th, ten
going N.W.; 7th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]

_Tuskar._--March 13th, four on rock, one dead; wind strong N.E.,
clear; 16th, two on rock, one dead; wind N.E. [29th, wing received;
date when killed not given.] September 21st, one all day; wind light
S.E., haze. October 16th, two killed striking; wind light N.E., clear.
[Leg and wing received.] 17th, twelve on rock, three killed striking;
wind light, clear. [Leg and wing received.] 20th, some on rock all
day; wind S., light; 22d, three at lantern; wind fresh, clear; 23d,
24th, 25th, and 30th, a few in daytime; wind strong, variable. November
4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 13th, 14th, 16th, 19th,
Chaffinches; two or three entered daily; seem to have accompanied the
tremendous rush of Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Starlings, which took
place in November 1887 at the Tuskar. (See under Blackbird.)

_Arklow South Light-ship._--October 23d, one seen. November 13th, three
on deck; wind light.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 11th, about ship, noon; wind light
S.W., clear; 22d and 26th, about lantern, midnight; wind S.W., fresh;
31st, flock of "finches" going N.W., 10 A.M.; wind N.W., light. October
24th, four all day on ship; wind strong N.E., clear; 28th, two on ship
all day; wind fresh W.

_Howth Baily._--October 15th, one disabled striking; 29th, two at
lantern, 8 P.M.; November 12th, large numbers at lantern, midnight to 4
A.M., many killed striking; fog.

_Rockabill._--February 10th, about rock, 1 P.M.; wind N.E., fresh.
November 10th, see under "Starling."

_South Rock Light-ship._--November 14th, one about ship.

_North Maidens._--November 21st, two seen; wind strong S.E.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 22d, four on rock; wind strong N.E.
November 8th, a flock; wind ditto; 9th, one struck lantern, 6 P.M.;
10th, some about lantern; wind light N.E., gloomy; 22d, two shot. [Legs
and wings of both received.] Wind strong N.E.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 11th, one on island; wind strong N. November
8th, two flocks. December 26th and 30th, several.

_Tearaght._--October 24th, large flock seen to-day.

_Skelligs._--October 22d, one found dead. [Leg and wing received.]
November 5th, eleven all day; wind light S.E.


Brambling (_Fringilla montifringilla_, Linn.).

_Tuskar._--October 20th, one "Mountain Chaffinch" killed striking.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--November 12th, one killed striking.
[Received in flesh.] (See note under Black-Headed Bunting.)

_Tearaght._--October 20th, one shot. [Leg and wing received.]

_Skelligs._--November 10th, forty "Mountain Finches" all day; wind
light S.E.: one shot. [Leg and wing received.]


Sparrow (_Passer domesticus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--March 14th, one shot. [Leg and wing received.]

_Tuskar._--March 9th, five "Sparrows" on lantern, 10 P.M.; one dead;
wind light S., cloudy.

_Tory Island._--March 12th, flocks of Sparrows about island. April 5th,
some noted; breed here.

_Killybegs._--November 13th, four seen.

_Slyne Head, S._--March 30th, two "House Sparrows" on island.

_Arran Island, S._--November 16th, great flocks of "Sparrows" on island
to-day; wind E., strong, hazy.


Greenfinch (_Coccothraustes chloris_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 16th, numbers striking all night; one killed;
gloomy, wind light S.E.; 17th, about fifty Chaffinches and Green
Linnets on rock all day; gloomy; 20th, one struck light, 3 A.M.;
gloomy, wind light S.W. November 13th, two on rock; wind light S.E.,
clear.

_Mine Head._--March 14th, one seen.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--September 17th, six flying S.; wind N.E.,
light, clear. November 16th, one about ship, 4 P.M.; wind light S.W.,
clear.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--April 29th, two going N. October 22d, seven
going N. November 7th, two going N., 10 A.M.; wind fresh N.E., clear;
_one killed by Gulls close to ship_. (See also under Skylark.)

_Tuskar._--October 26th, numbers at sunset, remained all night; stormy,
wind S.W. December 3d, one found dead; 25th, one on rock.

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--October 5th, one going N.W. November 9th,
one killed striking. [Received in flesh.]

_Arklow South Light-ship._--October 21st, one Green Linnet caught.

_Rockabill._--November 10th (see under "Starling").

_Rathlin Island._--November 24th, large flock at sunset; stormy, wind
S.E.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 12th, one male Greenfinch caught at
lantern, 10 P.M.; wind light S.E., overcast. [Leg and wing received.]

_Slyne Head, S._--October 19th, one Green Linnet on island; 20th, one
killed striking.

_Arran Island, N._--December 2d, five.

_Tearaght._--October 20th, six Greenfinches, one shot. [Leg and wing
received.] November 12th, large flock seen on island.


Goldfinch (_Carduelis elegans_, Steph.).

_Arranmore._--December 28th, one near station.


Siskin (_Carduelis spinus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 18th, one bird, name unknown, caught at lantern;
wind light S., gloomy. [Siskin received in flesh.] October 20th, one
dead on rock. [Received in flesh.] Wind light W.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--November 11th, one caught, 11 A.M.; wind light
S.E., gloomy. [Received in flesh.]

_Tuskar._--December 3d, one found dead. [Leg and wing received.]

_Rockabill._--November 7th, about sixty Siskins for half-an-hour, "the
first that came here for three years;" came from N.E.

_Slyne Head, S._--November 1st, two birds on island, smaller than a
Green Linnet, more yellow but the same green colour. [Possibly Siskins.]

_Tearaght._--October 19th, several Siskins seen; one shot. [Received in
flesh.]

_Skelligs._--October 24th, flock of Siskins; wind light S.E.; one shot.
[Leg and wing received.] November 18th, one found dead. [Leg and wing
received.]


"Redpole."

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 27th, one on rock, 9 A.M.; wind strong N.W.


"Linnets."

_Fastnet._--November 12th, thirty "Grey Linnets" going N.E.; wind light
S.E.

_Old Head, Kinsale._--February 16th, flocks flying N.; May 10th, flocks
alighted; June 20th, several flying N.; October 20th, November 12th,
14th 18th, and 20th, several.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 6th, twelve going N.W.; fog, wind light
E.; 11th, three going N.; wind fresh S.W. September 19th, nine flying
S.; clear, wind N.E., light; 29th, four seen going N.E. October 1st,
15th, and 16th, one to seven; 20th, four about light; 23d, four; 29th,
flock going N.E. November 12th, flying N.E. during day; wind light
S.E., clear.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 3d and 4th, small flock going N. in
mornings; 12th and 13th, a few all day going N.; wind fresh E.; 18th,
do., going N., 3 P.M. April 9th, one going E. October 16th, flocks
going N., 10 A.M. to noon; 23d, some going N.; wind light W, November
9th, three going N.; 10th, three "Grey Linnets" going N. December 4th,
six going N.W.

_Tuskar._--March 8th, three all day. October 17th, two "Linnets or
Twites" going N.W.

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--October 7th and 9th, flock going W.;
20th, one; 30th, several flocks going W., 10 A.M. November 24th,
several about lantern, 4.30 A.M.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 2d, flock going N.W. October 8th, do.
going E., noon; wind strong N.; 10th and 11th, several flocks going
N.W.; wind strong N.; 27th, flock going N.W., noon.

_South Rock Light-ship._--December 11th, large flock going S.W.

_South Maidens._--November 29th, December 4th, 6th, 15th, 30th, one to
two noted.

_Innishtrahull._--October 10th, numbers of "Scotch Linnets" will remain
during winter.

_Tory Island._--March 12th, flocks about island. April 5th, do. Grey
Linnets breed here.

_Arranmore._--October 3d, six Linnets; 6th, flocks near station.
November 16th, some on island.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--March 15th, fifty to eighty all day; wind fresh N.;
ten killed (striking?). Large flocks up to April 1st. October 28th,
about thirty on island; first this winter. December 20th, about thirty
remained a month.

_Killybegs._--A few noted at intervals during April, May, and June, and
several almost daily noted about station, October 1st to November 30th.

_Broadhaven._--October 17th, forty seen. Linnets resident.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 15th, numbers of Grey Linnets every day
during month.

_Arran Island, N._--October 31st, twenty. December 27th and 30th,
several on rock.

_Arran Island, S._--October 16th, flocks going S. all day; wind light N.


"Twite."

_Tuskar._--October 8th, twenty "Twites" going N.W. November 25th and
30th, do. December 2d, 5th, 9th, and 10th, one to six "Twites" noted.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 21st, flock of "Mountain Twites" during
day; wind strong S.E.

_Tearaght._--September 18th, several Twites arrived.


"Bullfinch."

_South Maidens._--October 9th and November 24th, one "Bullfinch" on
rock.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 24th, one "Bullfinch" on rock at noon; wind
strong N.W.

_Arran Island, S._--November 10th, "two Bullfinches," male and female,
caught alive at 8 P.M.; wind light E., hazy.


Starling (_Sturnus vulgaris_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--February 28th, hundreds from 10 P.M. to 6 A.M. around
light; wind light S.W., hazy; none killed or captured. March 1st,
numbers from 9 P.M. to 11 P.M. heard overhead; wind light S.W.,
clear--seemed to go S.; 2d, numbers striking, 1 A.M. to 4 A.M.; hazy,
wind light S.; none killed; 3d, numbers about light, 3 A.M. to 4 A.M.;
wind light W.S.W., hazy. While on shore from 11th to 18th February, I
saw large flocks of Starling congregating every evening about sunset
and flying S. The same thing occurred from 2d to 9th March. October
15th, numbers about light, 8 P.M. to 11 P.M.; hazy, wind light N.E.;
one caught; 17th, three struck; wind light S.E., gloomy; 24th, numbers
all night around lantern; wind fresh, clear. November 11th, one struck,
11 P.M.; gloomy; 13th, one found dead. [Leg and wing received.]

_Old Head, Kinsale._--March 4th, flocks alighted. October 4th, flocks
flying N.; 25th, several flying N.

_Mine Head._--March 1st, 2d, and 3d, striking occasionally at night;
fine; wind S. and S.E.; flocks in the fields. October 22d and 23d, a
few striking; 25th, great flocks in fields. November 10th and 11th,
about lantern all night. Plentiful to end of January 1888.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 19th, flocks about lantern, 9 P.M. to
midnight; gloomy, wind light E.; twelve killed striking. [Leg and wing
received.] 20th, flocks about light, midnight to 4 A.M.; snow showers,
wind light N.E.; nine killed striking. [Leg and wing received.] 26th,
some about lantern 8 to 9 P.M.; clear, wind fresh W. October 19th, one;
21st, several about light, 6 P.M. to midnight; many killed striking,
dropped into the sea; 22d, do., from 9 P.M. to midnight; 23d, do.,
midnight to 6 A.M.; wind light, overcast each day; 25th, flock going
N. November 4th, one about ship; 6th, "hundreds of birds of various
kinds, 5 to 9 P.M., about light; dozens killed and wounded; lots fell
overboard"--[Perhaps some were Starling.--R. M. B.]--hazy, with rain.
7th, Starling about light, 7 to 10 P.M.; showers, wind fresh. November
8th, flock going N.E., and several about ship, 8 to 4 P.M.; 10th,
flocks going N.W., 10.30 A.M.; wind N.W., clear; several about lantern
at night; 11th, two about ship; one killed at night; numbers of birds
killed striking, and fell overboard; 13th, about light; gloomy, wind
S.E.; several killed; 14th, about lantern, several killed; 15th, do.;
on 11th, 13th, 14th, and 15th, numbers of birds about ship, mostly
Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Starlings. December 23d, several about light,
midnight to 4 A.M.; wind fresh N.W., showery.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--On night of March 1st, from 8 P.M. to 2
A.M., and on 2d from 9 P.M. to 1 A.M., flocks passing to S.E.; 9th,
flocks going S., 7.30 to 9 P.M.; wind light, clear; 22d, a few going
S. at noon; wind fresh W., clear. October 15th and 16th, two flocks
going N.; 20th, three; 21st, small flocks, 9 P.M. to midnight, going
N.; 22d, do., at 3 A.M.; 25th, small flocks, 9 to 10 P.M., going N.
November 8th, flocks going N., 8 P.M. to midnight; 9th, do., midnight
to 3 A.M.; do., 8 to 11 P.M.; 10th, do., 7.30 P.M.; 11th, do., 7 P.M.;
12th, midnight to 5 A.M., and 8 P.M. to midnight; 13th, midnight to 4
A.M., and a few about lantern all night. In every case during October
and November going N., wind generally E.

_Tuskar._--February 19th, numbers at lantern all night; very clear,
wind fresh W. March 2d, fourteen on balcony, 10 P.M. to 4 A.M.; three
killed striking; wind light N., calm, hazy; 3d, an immense number about
lantern all night; calm, hazy; ten killed striking; 7th, five about
lantern; 10th, ten at 10 P.M. one killed striking; calm, clear; 11th,
some at lantern all night two killed striking; wind fresh S., hazy;
14th, ten at lantern two killed striking; wind N.W., clear; 20th, a
great rush--about one hundred at lantern all night; twenty killed
striking; hazy, wind S.E.; 25th, three at lantern; one killed striking;
wind N.W., clear. October 6th, one on rock; 12th, thirty going N.W.;
gale from N.; 16th, numbers from midnight to sunrise; first rush this
winter; twelve killed striking. [Leg and wing received.] 20th and 21st,
numbers about lantern; five killed striking; clear; 23d and 25th, small
flocks at intervals going towards land; wind S.W. and N.E. November
5th, 7th, 8th, 13th, and 20th, a few at lantern; 3d, 6th, and 9th,
several do.; 4th, 10th, 11th, 12th, and 14th, countless numbers at
lantern. (See under Blackbird, the general remarks concerning which are
also applicable to Starling during November at this station.) December
26th and 31st, one noted.

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--October 16th, at lantern all night;
several killed striking; flocks in daytime going N.W.; 26th, one at
lantern; 28th, flock going N.W. November 24th, several at lantern, 4.30
A.M.; wind N.W., clear.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 28th, flock going N.E., 6 P.M.
March 2d and 3d, about lantern, midnight to 4 A.M.; two killed
striking; cloudy. October 21st, about lantern, 12 to 3 A.M.; one killed
striking; gloomy: also, 10 P.M. to 7 A.M. on 22d, about lantern;
cloudy; some killed; 25th, one; 26th, some at lantern, 3 to 4 A.M.;
gloomy; wind S.W., strong. November 6th and 9th, one on ship; 10th, one
caught; 11th, several about lantern; gloomy; 13th, several at lantern,
8 P.M. to midnight; wind N, cloudy; 14th, one caught; 19th and 20th,
a flock going N.W. December 10th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing
received.]

_Arklow N. Light-ship._--February 7th, quantity of land birds about
lantern; two "Stares;" gale, wind S.W.; 19th, quantity of birds,
midnight, about lantern; two "Stares" killed. March 7th, small birds,
midnight, about lantern; two "Stares" killed; 18th, great number of
"Stares" about lantern, midnight to 4 A.M.; 19th and 21st, one or two
killed. September 22d, a number all night. October 16th, 18th, 20th,
and 30th, flocks at midnight; three killed striking on 18th; flocks on
17th and 22d, at noon, going N.W. November 10th, about lantern; two
killed; clear. December 7th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 21st, and 28th, "Stares"
about lantern; 8th and 12th, flocks at noon going N.W.

_Rockabill._--January 3d and February 10th, about rock; wind S.
and N.E., strong; 16th, about light, 1 A.M.; wind light S., misty;
19th, thirty going W., 8 A.M. November 10th, "the greatest number of
birds came this year; since I arrived every day they are passing in
flocks from two to three up to a hundred; Starlings, Chaffinches,
Greenfinches, are the most numerous, and some Blackbirds, all flying W."

_South Maidens._--October 13th, one killed striking; wind strong N.
November 1st, five on rock. December 11th, two seen.

_Innishtrahull._--March 19th, numbers at lantern, 10 P.M. to midnight;
wind light N.W., very dark; 20th, do., midnight to 4 A.M.; wind fresh
S.E.; 28th, one at lantern all night. November 10th, one striking, 11
P.M.; wind fresh E., dark; 13th, twenty on island. December 8th, four.

_Dunree Head._--November 10th, one disabled striking.

_Tory Island._--October 16th to 20th, large numbers; twelve killed
striking. [Leg and wing received, killed on 16th.]

_Arranmore._--October 14th, nine caught at lantern. November 3d, three
at lantern, 4 A.M.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--October 31st, thirty came from shore; gale from S.;
six killed (striking?). Never observed before without frost or snow.

_Killybegs._--October 20th, continuous flock about lantern until 5.30
A.M.; wind light N.E. November 7th, five noted; 9th, two flocks, and
some about station at intervals to end of month; 16th, one struck
lantern, 11 P.M.; 18th, about 500 in daytime; 26th, one struck lantern,
4 A.M.; several in daytime.

_Broadhaven._--November 11th, Starling very numerous.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 21st, seven during day on rock; wind fresh
S.E. November 8th, a flock; wind strong N.E.; 9th, about fifty on rock;
wind fresh N.E.; 10th, several about lantern at night; one caught; wind
N.E., light, gloomy; 12th, one at lantern, 10 P.M.; 16th, about sixty
at 9 A.M. going W., flying low near water; wind fresh S.W.; 21st, large
flock about rock; wind S.E., fresh.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 17th, about twenty on island; 21st, at
lantern all night; wind light S.E. November 12th, one killed striking;
numbers of "birds" [Starling?] about lantern on nights of 12th and 13th.

_Arran Island, N._--November 24th, a flock.

_Arran Island, S._--October 23d, one killed striking, 4 A.M.; wind
light N.E. First this year [winter?]. November 1st, great flocks on
island.

_Tearaght._--March 26th, Starlings and Thrushes which were here during
winter months left on this date. October 23d, one hundred going S.E.;
wind light S.; 31st, one hundred going S.E.; a gale from S.W. November
7th, fifty going S.; wind fresh N.

_Skelligs._--October 19th, four all day. November 10th, flock of two
hundred at 8 A.M.; wind light S.E., misty; 29th, small flock; wind
strong N. December 22d and 29th, flocks.


Chough (_Pyrrhocorax graculus_, Linn.).

_Old Head, Kinsale._--November 10th, two going N. December 10th, some
seen. They breed here.

_Mine Head._--October 20th, twenty to thirty.

_Arranmore._--A pair always here. Breed.

_Arran Island, N._--October 4th, four.

_Arran Island, S._--October 11th, eight Choughs. Remain here.

_Tearaght._--October 11th, thirty-five at 9 A.M., rested on island for
a time; wind fresh N.W.

_Skelligs._--January 20th to 26th, two. February 9th and 10th, two;
breed here. September 23d, two. October 8th, two. November 7th; four.


Raven (_Corvus corax_, Linn.).

_Old Head, Kinsale._--November 7th, two going N.; 24th, two; they breed
here.

_Mine Head._--February 21st, two seen; did not breed here this year.

_Dunree Head._--Two to four noted January 25th; March 9th, 15th, and
23d; April 16th, 18th, 25th; and June 10th; also August 28th and
October 7th.

_Arranmore._--May 9th, two. A pair always remain and breed.

_Broadhaven._--November 23d, two. It is resident.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 7th, three, and at intervals in August and
September.

_Tearaght._--September 10th, nine at 7 A.M., rested on island; 12th,
two.

_Skelligs._--January 10th, two; 20th to 26th, four. March 4th, two.
September 23d, two. October 1st, two.


Hooded Crow (Corvus cornix, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--March 5th, two "Carrion Crows" at 8 A.M. about rock; flew
to shore; wind light S.E., hazy; 9th, two "Grey-backed Crows;" wind
light S.E. (These are constant visitors from Cape Clear for the past
two days.) 16th, one "Carrion Crow" on rock; 20th, fourteen "Carrion
Crows" on rock; wind light S.E.; left 11 A.M. April 14th, two; 29th,
two.

_Innishtrahull._--July 14th, two "Crows" on island. "Carrion Crows"
are rare visitors. 21st, two.

_Tory Island._--April 10th, two "Carrion Crows" about island. August
17th, five Hooded Crows at 10 A.M.

_Arranmore._--A pair always here. Breed.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--Grey Crows breed here.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 11th, one on rock; wind light S.E.; 26th,
one. November 21st, one.

_Arran Island, N._--October 1st, two seen.

_Arran Island, S._--October 7th, two "Carrion Crows;" seldom seen;
24th, three.

_Tearaght._--April 3d, several about island.

_Skelligs._--January 10th, four. February 9th and 10th, two. They breed
here. March, 4th, four. September 30th, two. October 7th, ten; wind
light N.E. November 7th, two; 15th, five. December 23d, four.


Rook (_Corvus frugilegus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--November 8th, one on rock; hazy; seemed exhausted'; wind
strong S.E.

_Old Head, Kinsale._--October 5th, great number flying E. November 3d,
flocks going W. December 8th, 27th, 29th, several flocks.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 7th, two "Crows" going S.E.; clear,
wind fresh S.E. November 18th, one going N.E., 11 A.M.; wind fresh W.,
clear; 24th, flock going N., 10 A.M.; wind light N.W., clear.

_Tuskar._--March 16th, two going N.W.; wind strong N.E. November 10th,
one on rock; wind fresh N.E.; 25th, one on rock; 27th, one.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--March 25th, flock flying W., 7 A.M.; wind
fresh N.W., clear. April 22d, two; wind light, clear.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 18th, one going N.W. March 29th,
two going N.W.

_Rockabill._--January 10th, five going N.; clear.

_Dunree Head._--November 29th, ten "Crows" noted.

_Tory Island._--March 11th, five going S.W. April 5th and July 20th,
seven to nine about island.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--July 10th, two or three hundred "Crows" going W.;
wind light W., misty. "Immense flocks" going W. until 10 A.M. 18th, two
or three hundred on island.

_Broadhaven._--November 7th, five hundred Rooks resident.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 21st, two Rooks on rock; wind strong S.E.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 20th, twenty going S.; 27th, two seen.
November 4th to 13th, several; on 7th, about two hundred, with
Jackdaws, about island.

_Tearaght._--September 1st, three going E. October 21st, fifty going
E.; 23d, about one hundred and fifty going E.; wind light S.; 24th,
three hundred do.; wind strong N. November 8th, thirty; 9th, sixty;
11th, several; 15th, two hundred; 22d, eighteen; 23d, seventy; all
going E. in November. One shot on November 9th. [Received in flesh--a
young Rook]

_Skelligs._--November 5th, one on island; 9th, flocks, 12.30 P.M. to
4 P.M., going N.E.; wind light S.E. These Rooks seem to have flown a
long distance as they were apparently very tired. There were about one
hundred in the first flock, and eighty in the second. They came from
the westward. The second flock rested about ten minutes on island.
12th, sixteen; 18th, fourteen. [A somewhat similar flight of Rooks,
from W. to E., occurred at the Tearaght and Skelligs in 1884.--See
Migration Report for that year. The question is, where were they coming
from? There is no land to W. of Skelligs. The Tearaght is 20 miles N.
of Skelligs, and both about 9 miles from shore.]


Jackdaw (_Corvus monedula_, Linn.).

_Tuskar._--March 9th, two at noon; wind light S.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--June 22d, two came from shore. November 16th, five
do.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 19th, two on island, and see under Rook for
this station.

_Arran Island, N._--November 3d, five.

_Tearaght._--October 25th, one on island.


Magpie (_Pica rustica_, Scop.).

_Dunree Head._--February 27th, April 8th, two to five noted.

_Broadhaven._--December 26th, one in vicinity.

_Slyne Head, S._--November 10th to 13th, one or two on island.

_Arran Island, S._--November 1st and 15th, one seen.

_Tearaght._--November 11th, two going E.; wind N.E, light.


Swallow (_Hirundo rustica_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 5th, several young ones about light, 7 to 11 P.M.;
one caught. [Leg and wing received.] Wind light S.E., gloomy; 10th,
four about rock all day; wind light N.E, clear. October 20th, one on
rock; seemed exhausted; wind light W., clear.

_Old Head, Kinsale._--June 18th, three going S.; 30th, six.

_Mine Head._--April 17th, first seen this year: left about October 9th.

_Hook Tower._--A total absence of Swallows here this summer.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 30th, two "Swallows" flying N., 11.30
A.M.; clear, wind light N.E. May 4th, two alighted on ship; clear and
calm; one found dead. [Leg and wing received.] 6th, flocks flying N.W.
at 5 A.M.; clear, wind light S.E.; 13th, one; 28th, one about ship.
Swallow noted on June 5th, 19th, and 22d. September 17th, flocks flying
N.E.; wind N.E., fresh, clear; 18th, 19th, and 21st, two to five seen.
October 18th, one about ship, 11 A.M.; wind light E.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--Swallow entered on April 9th, 30th; May
2d, 9th, 12th, and 30th; June 14th and 15th; one to four each day; all
going N. October 16th, two about ship; wind N.E., light, clear.

_Tuskar._--April 25th, two all day on rock; first seen this year; gale
from S.W. September 19th, 20th, and 21st, several all day about rock;
wind E. October 6th, one all day; 9th, one flying about; 17th and 18th,
two about rock all day; clear.

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--October 7th, flock going E.; 17th, flocks
going N.W.; clear; 19th, two about ship; one fell in water.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--April 10th and 22d, two going N.W. May 22d,
six going N.W. September 15th and 16th, one to four going N.W.; 20th,
21st, flocks noticed; hazy.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--September 12th, flocks going E. at noon;
wind fresh N.W.

_Dunree Head._--May 6th, one; first seen this year; 24th, six; 28th,
great numbers, 10 A.M., going N.W.; wind W., fresh. August 8th, four.
Leave here this month.

_Arranmore._--May 4th, 30th, and June 17th, one to two.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--April 10th, seven going N.W.; the first seen this
year; wind light S.E.; 17th, five on island; 19th, four do.; all left
but three on this date.

_Killybegs._--April 3d, six seen; 16th, several; also noted May 2d,
10th, and June 8th.

_Broadhaven._--July 3d, three.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--May 9th, one about rock.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 15th, two "House Martin Swallows" fly about
island; wind light N.E. November 13th, one "Sand Martin Swallow" seen;
seemed tired; wind light S.E.

_Arran Island, N._--May 4th and 10th, two to four.

_Tearaght._--June 1st, one going N.

_Skelligs._--October 7th, large flock about all day; wind light N.E.
October 24th, four all day; wind light S.E.


Sand Martin (_Cotile riparia_, Linn.).

_Blackrock, Mayo._--March 30th, one about rock; wind light S.W.


Swift (_Cypselus apus_, Linn.).

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--June 7th, two "Black Martins" flying W.

_Tuskar._--May 22d, one found dead; wind light N., clear. [Leg and wing
received.]

_Innishtrahull._--May 5th, 6th, 10th, 26th, and July 2d, one to two
noted about island.

_Arranmore._--June 17th, two Swifts.


Nightjar (_Caprimulgus europæus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--July 1st, seen and heard at 11 P.M.


Cuckoo (_Cuculus canorus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--May 3d, one Cuckoo on rock; wind light N.E. Left for Cape
Clear.

_Dunree Head._--One to three noted May 7th, 14th, 30th, June 5th, 24th,
30th, and July 8th, in all cases but one going E. or S.E. First seen
May 7th. Left in July.

_Skelligs._--April 19th, one Cuckoo seen on rock.


Hoopoe (_Upupa epops_, Linn.).

_Eagle Island, E._--April 12th, shot a bird; I do not remember ever
having seen one like it before. [Hoopoe received in flesh.--R. M. B.]


"Woodpecker."

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 20th, "I saw this morning a sort of
'woodpecker.' It had a peculiar rising on the upper part of its beak,
and was the size of a female Chaffinch." [What was this bird?] Wind
fresh S.W.


"Pigeons."

_Mine Head._--March 14th, one "strange Pigeon." Rock Pigeons breed in
caves near. October 16th, thirty to forty in flock.

_Tuskar._--March 14th, one "Dove" on lantern, 10 P.M.; wind strong
N.W., clear. October 19th, one pigeon shot. [Leg and wing of Rock
Pigeon received.]

_Innishtrahull._--May 26th, three young Pigeons about island. They
breed in caves near lighthouse.

_Dunree Head._--March 30th and April 3d, two to six noted; August 7th,
a flock going E. September 4th, eight; 27th, six.

_Tory Island._--June 25th, ten to twenty Pigeons remain here. July 22d,
flocks of Rock Pigeon. September 3d, ten to twenty Pigeons.

_Arranmore._--March 26th, fourteen Pigeons noted. December 23d, a flock
seen. Remain all winter.

_Killybegs._--October 1st, ten Wood Pigeons; 11th, eight Wild Pigeons.

_Slyne Head, S._--March 7th, seven Pigeons going W.

_Arran Island, N._--May 20th, two.


Turtle Dove (_Turtur communis_, Selby).

_Blackrock, Mayo._--June 27th, one shot on rock; wind light. [Head,
wing, and leg received.]


Corncrake (_Crex pratensis_, Bechst.).

_Mine Head._--May 1st, one found dead. [Leg and wing received.]

_Tuskar._--April 25th, one killed striking N.E. side of lantern; wind
strong W., clear.

_Rockabill._--October 3d. (See under Skylark.)

_Innishtrahull._--June 28th and 30th, one heard on island.

_Tory Island._--August 10th, one heard.

_Skelligs._--June 16th, one found dead. [Leg and wing received.]


Spotted Crake (_Porzana maruetta_, Leach).

_Tearaght._--August 21st, one caught, 11 A.M.; wind fresh S.E. [Skin
received.]


Water Rail (_Rallus aquaticus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--September 24th, one in coal-house, 9 A.M.; it escaped and
flew towards land.

_Hook Tower._--November 8th, one killed striking. [Received in flesh.]

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--November 6th, "a strange bird killed against
lantern; never saw same kind before." [Received a Water Rail in flesh.]

_Tuskar._--November 14th, one found dead on rock, 8 A.M.; wind fresh N.
[Leg and wing received.]

_Rockabill._--November 10th, one killed striking. [Received in flesh.]

_Innishtrahull._--November 12th, one killed striking, 4 A.M.; calm,
dark. [Leg and wing received.]

_Tory Island._--November 16th, one caught; wind strong W. [Received in
flesh.] December 3d, one killed striking, 6 P.M.; wind strong N.W.

_Tearaght._--November 19th, one shot. [Received in flesh.]


Water Hen (_Gallinula chloropus_, Linn.).

_Arranmore._--November 7th, one near station, 7 A.M.; stormy, wind N.E.


Bald Coot (_Fulica atra_, Linn.).

_Arklow South Light-ship._--September 22d, one "Water Hen" killed
striking, 1 A.M.; wind light, overcast. [Leg and wing of Bald Coot
received.]


"Ringed Dotterel."

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 17th, three going N.E.; clear.


Golden Plover (_Charadrius pluvialis_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--February 10th, passing at 9 P.M.; 17th, large flock.

_Howth Baily._--December 21st, Golden Plover in neighbourhood.

_Tory Island._--March 12th, "six Grey Plover" about island. August
30th, nine "Golden Plover" all day. November 5th, some about island.

_Arranmore._--"Grey Plover," remain all winter.

_Killybegs._--October 14th, sixteen "Grey Plover." November 18th to
23d, a few Golden Plover noted.

_Broadhaven._--November 20th, a flock; numerous this season.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 14th, about sixty seen.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 7th, about thirty "Grey Plover" going S.
December 22d, one Golden Plover found on dome of lighthouse.


Green Plover (_Vanellus vulgaris_, Bechst.).

_Fastnet._--March 5th, one "Lapwing Plover" about rock, 4 P.M.; foggy,
wind light S.E. March 13th, Golden and Green Plover very scarce on
shore; a very mild winter. April 10th, one going N.; wind fresh S.E.

_Old Head, Kinsale._--October 10th, four going W. December 20th to 23d,
some seen going N.W.

_Mine Head._--February 10th, passing at 10 P.M.; wind W., frosty.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 7th, a flock going N.E.; clear, wind
fresh S.E.; 20th, flock about light, midnight to 4 A.M.; snow showers,
wind light N.E.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 11th, twelve Green Plover going N.,
6 P.M.; wind W., fresh. July 27th, flock of "Plover" flying N.E.; wind
W., fresh.

_Tuskar._--March 3d, five on rock all day; shot four; wind fresh E.,
cloudy; 6th, five went N.W.; wind light E., cloudy; one found dead;
7th, one on rock; 8th, six went N.W.; 10th, four; shot two.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 17th, six "Plover" going S.W.;
misty. March 18th, three do. about ship, 2 A.M.; overcast.

_Howth Baily._--December 21st, 22d, 23d, Green Plover in neighbourhood.

_Rockabill._--February 16th, Lapwing about light, 1 A.M.; one killed
striking; wind light S., misty. [Leg and wing received.]

_South Rock Light-ship._--December 10th, two about light, 7.30 P.M.

_South Maidens._--October 1st, twelve going N.E.

_Tory Island._--March 12th, fifteen to twenty about island. September
1st, three at 6 P.M. November 5th, some about island.

_Arranmore._--November 16th, "Plover" on island.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 28th, two on island; seldom seen.

_Killybegs._--March 29th, four; will remain to breed. November 23d,
four.

_Arran Island, N._--Four to thirty at intervals in March.

_Skelligs._--March 4th, four Peewits; two shot; 6th, eighteen; six shot


Oyster-Catcher (_Hæmatopus ostralegus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--September 13th, one on rocks.

_Tuskar._--March 4th, two all day; left for shore.

_Innishtrahull._--December 15th, two Oyster-Catchers on rocks.

_Tory Island._--March 20th and July 14th, ten to twelve noted.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--Seapies breed here.

_Killybegs._--April 20th, four. November 8th, six.

_Broadhaven._--Oyster-Catchers resident. Noted November 9th and
December 11th.

_Slyne Head, S._--November, Seapies about island.

_Arran Island, N._--January 26th, February 27th, and April 20th,
several noted.

_Arran Island, S._--October 24th, flocks of Seapies; shot two.

_Skelligs._--November 15th, two on island.


Woodcock (_Scolopax rusticula_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--March 13th, Woodcocks and Snipe very scarce on shore this
season. A very mild winter.

_Tuskar._--November 11th, two Woodcock killed striking; wind light E.,
cloudy. [Leg and wing received.] November 12th, one on rock all day;
13th, two do.

_Tory Island._--November 15th, one seen.

_Arranmore._--November 16th, one on island; 17th, found one dead.
January 3d, 1888, one shot.

_Slyne Head, S._--November 11th, one on island; also November 13th,
December 2d and 28th.

_Arran Island, N._--December 14th, one seen.


Common Snipe (_Gallinago cælestis_, Frenzel), and Jack Snipe (_G.
gallinula_, Linn.).

_Old Head, Kinsale._--October 7th, one Snipe shot. December 25th, three
do.

_Tuskar._--October 7th, one found dead on rock. [Leg and wing of Jack
Snipe received.] November 11th, two--on e found killed; wind light E.,
cloudy. [Leg and wing of Jack Snipe received.] November 12th, one all
day on rock; 13th do.; 24th, do.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--November 10th, one killed striking, 8 P.M.;
wind fresh N.E., clear. [Leg and wing of Jack Snipe received.]

_Rockabill._--October 3d (see under Skylark).

_Tory Island._--November 5th, numbers about island.

_Arranmore._--November 16th, Snipe on island.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 1st, eight; one shot.

_Broadhaven._--October 22d, three noted.

_Slyne Head, S._--November 12th, two killed striking; 13th, two on
island. December 22d, one picked up dead.

_Arran Island, N._--December 16th, two at 8 A.M.


"Sand Larks."

_Fastnet._--February 20th, about fifty "Sand Larks" on rock. These
birds are regular visitors at intervals. March 5th, large numbers of
"Sand Larks" at 10 A.M. feeding on rock; wind light S.E., hazy; 20th,
twelve all day; wind light S.E. April 10th, six. October 9th, six on
rock; 20th, four; 21st, numbers about light at night; clear. November
17th, numbers about light, 10 P.M. to midnight; hazy. December 5th,
eight on rock; 11th, six all day on rock.

_Mine Head._--February 15th, "Strand Larks," about a dozen on rocks.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 6th, two "Sandpipers," 9.30 P.M.; one
killed striking; wind light N.E., clear; 29th, a "little Stint" about
ship.

_Tuskar._--March 13th, 22d, "Sandpipers" noted; 17th, six "Sea Larks"
on rock. October 17th, 18th, and 19th, a few "Sandpipers" on rocks.
November 27th, ten "Sand Larks" all day; stormy. December 4th, two
"Sandpipers" on rock; 5th, small flock; 28th, six do. on rock.

_Tory Island._--March 20th and July 18th, flocks of "Sand Larks" about
island.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--"Sand Larks" breed here.

_Eagle Island, W._--February 5th, several "Sandpipers" on island.

_Slyne Head, S._--November, "Sand Larks" about island.


Redshank (_Totanus calidris_, Linn.).

_Tuskar._--March 5th, six all day; left for shore.

_Broadhaven._--December 9th and 26th, one to three noted.

_Slyne Head, S._--November, Redshank about island.

_Arran Island, N._--January 14th and February 8th, twelve on island.
November 12th, do.


"Greenshank."

May 12th, two "Greenshanks" seen.


Curlew (_Numenius arquata_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--March 2d, Curlew heard, 2 A.M.; seemed a large flock; wind
light S.W., hazy; 11th, one; wind S.W., hazy. March 13th, Curlew not so
numerous on shore this winter as last.

_Old Head, Kinsale._--October 9th, five flying W. December 20th to 23d,
several.

_Mine Head._--February 19th, one heard passing. March 9th, heard
between 1 and 2 A.M.; 10th, seven seen; 11th, heard day and night;
20th, eight going N.E.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 11th, flock flying N.E.; rain, wind
fresh; 20th, flock about light, midnight to 4 A.M.; snow showers, wind
fresh N.E. June 24th, several at 9 P.M. flying N. over ship; 26th, one;
27th, two; 28th, several seen; clear, wind light S.E. November 12th,
several about ship during night; light N.E., gloomy.

_Tuskar._--March 3d, four on rock, 10 P.M.; 10th and 11th, two on rock.
August 21st, one. November 26th, two on rock.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--August 24th, two.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 18th, great quantity about lantern,
midnight to 4 A.M.; wind fresh N.W., snow. October 9th, flocks going
N.W., 9 A.M.

_Howth Baily._--December 21st, large flocks about.

_Dunree Head._--October 14th, 24th, and November 10th, 16th, five to
sixteen noted.

_Tory Island._--July 10th, flocks about island. September 15th, do.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--June 30th, twenty-five going W.; wind light N.E.
July 31st, five on island.

_Killybegs._--Two to eight frequent about station, October and November.

_Broadhaven._--October 22d, flocks noted.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 1st, one on rock; wind strong S.W.

_Arran Island, N._--Four to twenty noted, January 9th, February 4th,
and April 28th. October 12th, three.

_Skelligs._--September 23d, one on island.


Whimbrel (_Numenius phæopus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--April 30th, one going S.E.; wind light S.E. May 3d, one
going N.E.; seemed exhausted, as it flew with difficulty; wind light
N., clear. November 29th, one shot on shore of mainland. [Whimbrel
received in flesh.]

_Mine Head._--May 13th and 27th, a great noise of "May Fowl or
Whimbrel;" lasted 15 minutes; fog.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 22d, flock flying N., 10.30 P.M.; rain,
calm.

_Innishtrahull._--May 12th, nine "May birds" all day on island; wind
N.W., gale; 25th, young Curlew all day on island.

_Tory Island._--May 10th, eight "Whimbrel (Maybirds)" all day about
island.

_Arranmore._--May 19th, two; 27th, one.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--April 20th, "thirty-four Curlew (Maybirds)" came
from shore. Large flocks until May 8th. July 25th, "twenty Whimbrel,
or young Curlew," on island; wind light N.W. [If Whimbrel, the date is
unusually late.]

_Broadhaven._--May 17th, "flocks of Whimbrel." Left June 13th.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--May 12th, "Maybirds" about lantern, 10 P.M.; wind
strong N.W.

_Tearaght._--May 14th, Whimbrel flying N., very high; wind strong N.


"Terns."

_Fastnet._--December 12th, six "Sea Mews" [Terns?] startled from rock
by firing gun cotton.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 6th, one killed striking. [Leg and
wing of Common Tern received.]

_Tuskar._--August 17th, one "Arctic Tern" at night.

_Innishtrahull._--July 19th and 20th, one Tern noted.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--June 2d and 8th, eight to fifteen seen. Breed on
island to W. of lighthouse.


"Gulls."

_Fastnet._--January 20th to 28th, large numbers feeding about rock;
24th, two Royal Gulls. [Great Black-backs.--R. M. B.] February 19th,
two small Royal Gulls, all day. April 12th, two Royal Gulls, last
year's birds; 30th, a small Gull. November 10th, several Gulls about
rock; also four "large, light-grey Gulls, not so light as the Iceland
Gull; flew very sluggishly;" wind light S.E.; 20th, several flocks
of Gulls flying high to N.W.; clear, wind light N.W. December 1st,
two Great Black-backed Gulls about rock; 5th, a pet Gull about rock,
first time this winter; comes every winter, and is very tame and fed
regularly; 6th, several Gulls all day flying N.W.; strong gale from N.W.

_Old Head, Kinsale._--January 4th, flock flying W. March 12th, great
flocks flying E.; 15th and 20th, flocks. April 5th, great numbers on
water. May 14th, June 2d and 14th, flocks.

_Mine Head._--February 14th, Herring Gulls breed. They are here summer
and winter. August 30th, two "Royal Gulls." November 21st, two do.
going N.E. December 13th, two. October 13th, great number of Gulls
after fish.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--June, great flocks of Herring Gulls, old and
young; also small "Common Gulls," and a few Black-backed Gulls, about
ship up till 12th; on 29th and 30th, several small Gulls. October, a
few Skua Gulls seen passing.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--November 6th, passing all day to W. in twos
and threes; wind fresh E.

_Tuskar._--March 10th, about fifty Sea Gulls; 24th, none seen since
10th. November 12th to 18th, numbers noted. "I have not entered
movements of Gulls and Gannets, as they are nearly always about rock
fishing, and going in no particular direction."

_Arklow South Light-ship._--September 19th, hundreds of small Gulls on
water.

_Howth Baily._--November 2d, large flock going N.W.

_Dunree Head._--July 27th, numbers of Gulls; a few, August 15th and
October 2d.

_Tory Island._--April 23d, flocks; breeds in thousands at east end of
island.

_Arranmore._--March 20th, two "Royal Gulls."

_Broadhaven._--November 12th, thirty Great Black-backed Gulls; "Common
Gulls" every day.

_Eagle Island, W._--February 28th, two Royal Gulls.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 8th, one Glaucous Gull at noon, soaring.
"I identified in Dublin Museum subsequently." November 11th, large
quantity of Kittiwake and Herring Gulls fishing; 14th, one Glaucous
Gull; 15th and 16th, very large flocks of Kittiwakes, Herring, and a
number of Royal Gulls. December 11th and 24th, do., and one Glaucous
Gull on last date. January 6th, 1888, large flocks of Kittiwakes
(young, generally), and one Glaucous Gull.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 13th, numbers of Grey Gulls. November 1st and
2d, Gulls and Kittiwakes going S.W.; 7th, one "Cream-coloured Gull"
flying about island. [Probably an Iceland Gull.]

_Tearaght._--August 23d, Kittiwakes breeding; have all left; a few
Herring Gulls all the year round; also a pair of Great Black-backed
Gulls. December 12th, large flock of Herring Gull close to island.
Among them I saw "four Cream-coloured Gulls," and they seemed large.

_Skelligs._--January 1st to 9th, Kittiwakes and Herring Gulls fishing;
16th, do., and some Black-backed Gulls. February 1st, 3d, and 4th,
Great Black-backs and Herring Gulls; 9th and 10th, several Herring
Gulls. March 14th, Kittiwakes first landed, and took possession of the
old nests. December 5th, large flock of Kittiwakes about rock; 11th,
do. of Herring Gulls.


Great Shearwater (_Puffinus major_, F. Faber).

_Tearaght._--"On 21st September, observed two birds close to rock; they
seemed to me to be the large Shearwater."


Manx Shearwater (_Puffinus anglorum_, Temminck).

_Mine Head._--Heard at intervals between May 16th and July 26th.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 14th, one about lantern, 11 P.M.; gloomy,
calm; disabled; 15th, one struck lantern, 10.30 P.M., killed--[Leg and
wing received]--gloomy, calm. June, quantities passing by ship.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 27th, a few all day; the first seen.
April 8th, some seen. June 26th and 27th, small flocks all day.

_Howth Baily._--One killed striking about May 10th. [Received in flesh.]

_Arklow North Light-ship._--April 6th and 8th, Mackerel Cocks all day
about ship; wind fresh E., sleet.

_Arranmore._--April 9th, thirteen Manx Shearwaters. Great quantities
breed in the peat holes about the station.

_Skelligs._--June 27th, young "night bird" sent. [Received young Manx
Shearwater.] June 29th, another sent, [Received.]


Fork-Tailed Petrel (_Cymochorea leucorrhea_, Vieill.).

_Blackrock, Mayo._--September 3d. "Relative to the Fork-tailed Petrel
resorting (breeding at) this rock, I think from long observation (over
six years) that they do not." November 12th, four or five Fork-tailed
Petrels about rock, 10 A.M.; wind light S.E., gloomy. Never noticed any
Petrels in the daytime here before. November 13th, one, 10 A.M.; 15th,
one caught in yard, 6 P.M. [Skin and contents of gizzard received.--R.
M. B.]

_Tearaght._--June 21st, found a Fork-tailed Petrel breeding on island.
Bird caught on egg and forwarded to Mr A. G. More; egg broken; 23d,
found another breeding; egg forwarded. [The bird referred to on 21st
June was received by Mr More, and the egg found on 23d was received by
R. M. B. Both correctly identified.] Mr Ryan in a letter says:--"Both
birds had nice nests made of withered grass; I have seen none since,
and think they are very scarce." Subsequently he writes: "Little
nests were formed, but nothing like what land birds make. The little
hollow was lined thinly with grass. I often found some of the Stormy
Petrels with little nests; but again plenty lay on the bare earth or
among loose stone." [Though I have frequently taken the eggs of the
Fork-tailed and Stormy Petrels, no grass was ever found about them.
See _Zoologist_ 1887, p. 349, as to breeding of Fork-tailed Petrel on
Tearaght.--R. M. B.]


Stormy Petrel (_Procellaria pelagica_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--September 22d, one about light; wind fresh S.E., gloomy.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--June 1st, one to seven about ship on several
occasions up to 21st, in the daytime. Fine weather, and wind light
throughout. Several seen on 7th. September 21st, some about lantern, 8
P.M. to midnight; wind light E., hazy; one killed striking. [Leg and
wing received.] October 27th, one about ship. November 5th, three do.;
13th, five on ship at night; wind light S.E., gloomy.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--November 5th, seven going E.; wind fresh
S.W.

_Arrow South Light-ship._--November 10th, one "Mother Carey Chicken"
struck lantern, 9 P.M.; fell on deck; wind light.

_Tory Island._--July 1st, "large flocks" of Stormy Petrel remain. At
the end of June numbers arrive. [They breed on Tory Island.--R. M. B.]
September 15th, one killed striking, 11 P.M.; hazy, wind light N. [Leg
and wing received.]

_Rathlin O'Birne._--July 30th, one caught under rock on its egg; they
breed here. [Stormy Petrel and its egg received.]

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 29th, one at lantern, 1 A.M.; wind fresh
N.E. September 3d, "used to breed here in large numbers, but owing
to mice, a cat was introduced, and I don't think there are over one
dozen Petrels breeding this year. I have often counted twelve pair of
Petrel's wings and tails in the morning--killed by the cat. They are
easily captured."

_Slyne Head, S._--October 20th, one killed striking.

_Skelligs._--September 22d, several at lantern from 10 P.M. to 2 A.M.;
two young ones killed striking; wind light S.E., hazy. October 9th, one
young bird killed striking, 8 P.M.; 15th, several at lantern, 7 to 11
P.M.; one killed striking (young bird); wind light N.E., gloomy.


Razorbill and Guillemot (_Alca torda_, Linn.; and _Uria troile_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--January 20th to 28th, large numbers feeding about rock.
May 1st, seven. November 10th, "several puffins (?), razorbills, and
guillemots" all day about rock; wind light S.E.

_Old Head, Kinsale._--May 20th, flocks of "loots" [loons?] flying W.

_Mine Head._--February 14th, young Razorbills (about one hundred)
fishing. I believe they are always about here. June 15th, "Razorbill
heard on water." October 13th, great many.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October, Razorbills passing daily.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 10th, flock going E., 4 P.M. June
28th, small flocks of "Murs" going N.W. all day; clear. July 3d and
9th, several with young ones drifting past all day. From 20th to August
1st, number of "Murs" with young passing.

_Tuskar._--March 23d, five Razorbills.

_Innishtrahull._--May 12th to 22d, numbers of Razorbills.

_Arranmore._--April 11th and 14th, some Razorbills and Guillemots.

_Eagle Island, W._--February 7th, small flock of "Puffins." [Probably
Razorbills.]

_Tearaght._--January 28th, several Guillemots seen about island.
February 6th, on rocks for the first time. March 3d, Razorbills
arrived. August 5th, Guillemots and Razorbills have all left.

_Skelligs._--January 1st to 9th, some young Razorbills and Guillemots
fishing. February 11th, Guillemot first landed for the year; left at 8
A.M.; 15th to 26th, the Guillemots come in the early morning and leave
after a few hours. March 10th, Razorbill first landed on rock.


Puffin (_Fratercula arctica_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--January 20th to 28th, large numbers feeding about rock.--[?
R. M. B.] (See under Razorbill, November 10th.)

_Old Head, Kinsale._--March 25th, great numbers of Puffins on water.
April 7th, large number.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--June 9th to 12th, great flocks of "Puffins"
during day about ship; clear, wind light. "The Puffins seen passing
appeared to be four kinds of birds"!

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 29th, a few "Sea Parrots" drifting
by all day. April 8th, some "Parrots" seen; 21st, several "Parrots"
drifting past slowly. June 27th, small flocks all day. July 20th to
August 1st, some drifting past.

_Tuskar._--March 9th, four "Puffins" going S.W.; 12th, three.

_Innishtrahull._--April 17th, "Puffins heard in the distance," 6.30
P.M.; calm. May 12th to 22d, numbers through the day.

_Dunree Head._--July 18th, flocks of Puffins seen.

_Tory Island._--May 2d, "Puffins and Sea Parrots" remain to breed.

_Arranmore._--October 17th, a "Sea Parrot" (? Puffin) off the head,
fishing.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--May 5th, twenty. These birds more plentiful on
island this year than formerly.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 4th, one Puffin, the first seen; wind strong
W.N.W.

_Slyne Head, S._--March 29th, flocks all day going N. October 21st,
flocks of Puffins passing S.; 28th, numbers do. November 1st and 2d, do.

_Arran Island, N._--April 6th, flocks going N. all day; wind light N.E.
In June large number in vicinity. December, "Puffins" every day.

_Tearaght._--March 26th, Puffins arrived in great numbers. August 16th,
all have left.

_Skelligs._--March 24th, Puffins first landed on rock. November 15th,
one "Puffin" at 2 P.M. close to rock; wind light S.E.


"Great Northern Diver."

_Arranmore._--April 10th, one at 8 P.M.; wind light N.E.

_Broadhaven._--November 20th, three noted. [It is entered among the
residents; no doubt an error.]


Cormorant and Shag (_Phalacrocorax carbo_, Linn.; and _P. graculus_,
Linn.).

_Fastnet._--January 24th, two Brown and four Green "Cormorants" all day
fishing. February 19th, two Brown Cormorants on Little Fastnet. It is
only occasionally these birds come to this rock to feed. April 12th,
two Green-Crested Cormorants fishing; 14th and 29th, one; 30th, three.
May 2d, eleven fishing. November 10th, three "large Cormorants" about
rock; 13th, "one large White-breasted Cormorant" fishing; wind light
S.E.; 20th, four Cormorants fishing. December 4th to 11th, two to four.
On 10th a "White-breasted Cormorant--very large bird"--on top of rock;
wind very light, clear.

_Mine Head._--February 14th, Cormorants always plentiful. Breed
half-mile E. of lighthouse.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--One or two at intervals in June about ship.
November 2d, three seen.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--July 29th, three going W. November 3d, 4th,
and 5th, three to six going E.

_Tuskar._--November 8th, 10th, and 13th, six to twelve noted.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--August 24th, one Cormorant about ship.

_Howth Baily._--October 22d, six going E.

_Dunree Head._--January 6th, numbers of Cormorants. Noted frequently
(about twenty each time) from July to December in all cases, but one
going in northerly direction. August 21st, great numbers.

_Tory Island._--December 20th, about island.

_Broadhaven._--November 11th, Cormorants numerous. They are resident.

_Slyne Head, S._--November, about island.

_Arran Island, N._--January 31st, three; some every day.

_Skelligs._--September 26th, two.


Gannet (_Sula bassana_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--March 9th, four going N.W. at 10 A.M. The first seen for
some time; wind light S.E.; 16th, two; 20th, four. April 10th, four.
May 2d, two; one of them last year's bird. November 10th, four fishing;
17th, eight going N.W.; 20th, several going N.W., flying high; wind
light N.W.

_Old Head, Kinsale._--January 3d, two flocks flying E. February 14th,
flock flying E. March 7th, several flocks flying W.; 20th, flocks
flying W. May 14th and June 25th, do.

_Mine Head._--September 15th, one, and occasionally afterwards.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--A few passing E. and W. in June. Several about
ship in October, November, and December.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--A few noted March 30th, April 13th and
17th; June 19th, one going E., the first young Gannet seen; 21st and
July 50th, Gannets seen going W. October 25th, five going E.; 30th,
three going E. November 5th, four about ship.

_Tuskar._--March 11th and 22d, two to three. November 10th, 12th, 14th,
16th, 17th, 18th, and 30th, numbers about rock. See under Gull at this
station.

_Lucifer Shoals Light-ship._--Noted at intervals, October 6th to 19th;
general direction of flight N.E.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--March 30th, April 2d, 10th, and 22d,
Gannets noted flying N.E. Gannets noted July 29th, August 25th, and in
September, at intervals. Flocks on September 8th, 22d, and October 4th;
generally going N.E.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 11th, 15th, March 28th, 31st,
April 4th, 6th, and 8th, noted flying N.E. and N.W. September 23d,
October 2d, 13th, and 14th, going N.E. and S.W.

_Innishtrahull._--March 24th and 30th, one to five noted. July 14th, a
number.

_Dunree Head._--July 22d, six seen going N.W.

_Tory Island._--April 3d and June 5th, a few noted.

_Arranmore._--October 5th, Gannets passing and repassing.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--June 10th, thirty to forty, and large numbers until
end of month; more plentiful than usual this year.

_Killybegs._--Noted two to four, May 20th, 26th, and June 6th.

_Eagle Island, W._--February 1st and 6th, several seen.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--From the beginning of February numbers of Gannets
passed N., and ceased on or about March 15th. November 13th, two; "very
few since October 20th." January 6th, 1888, four.

_Slyne Head, S._--February, Gannets seen daily. October 11th, 14th,
15th, 17th, and 28th, numbers passing, all going N. November 1st and
2d, numbers going S.W.

_Arran Island, N._--Gannets seen every day.

_Tearaght._--February 12th, Gannets about island. March 21st, Gannets
going N. for the past fortnight.

_Skelligs._--February 2d, ten fishing, first seen this year; 10th,
Gannets increasing; 12th to 14th, increasing in great numbers; 26th,
first seen on the Little Skellig. November 7th, last Gannet seen on the
Little Skellig.


Heron (_Ardea cinerea_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--December 11th, one flying high to N.W.; wind light N.E.,
clear.

_Mine Head._--August 20th, one seen. October 5th and 21st, one passing
along coast pursued by Gulls. December 14th, one in marsh.

_Tuskar._--October 18th, one seen on rock; calm, clear.

_Innishtrahull._--October 11th and 12th, one on rocks; a rare visitor;
wind N., stormy; 31st, one.

_Tory Island._--August 26th, one; wind strong S.W. December 20th,
Herons seen.

_Arranmore._--June 9th, two Herons seen.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--July 1st, two "Cranes;" first time I saw any on
island; wind light S.E.

_Broadhaven._--Herons resident; noted October 7th and December 2d.

_Arran Island, S._--October 7th, one stayed two days; seldom seen.
November 15th, one.

_Tearaght._--August 24th, one on island; wind light S.E. September
13th, two; 20th, three.

_Skelligs._--November 8th, one going N.W.; wind light N.E.


"Geese."

_Fastnet._--November 12th, one "Barnacle" flying S.W.

_Mine Head._--March 10th, twenty passing N.E.; calm. August 14th, about
fifty "Wild Geese" passing N.E.; calm, fine.

_Tuskar._--September 21st, one Goose seen. November 13th, eleven going
N.

_Arklow North light-ship._--October 8th, flock going E., noon.

_Howth Baily._--October 15th, flock of "Wild Ducks or Barnacle" going
E. November 20th, do., large flock.

_Innishtrahull._--March 18th, seven "Wild Geese" on island. December
25th, seven going N.E.

_Tory Island._--November 15th, nine going S.

_Arranmore._--March 24th, sixty Barnacle going W. Barnacle left on
May 1st. October 15th, in flocks all day on island; 20th and 21st,
flocks going S.; 23d, large flocks going N. November 5th, passing and
repassing. December 13th, flock going S. January 5th, 1888, two "Wild
Geese" feeding. "Barnacle remain in flocks here all winter feeding on
the green banks of grass and moss in the valleys and on the brows of
the cliffs."

_Rathlin O'Birne._--May 3d, one "Barnacle or Wild Goose" shot, feeding
on island. [Leg and wing of White-fronted Goose received.] July 10th,
bird I am not certain of shot. This and the bird shot May 3d differ
from the Barnacle which pass here in winter. [Leg and wing of Brent
Goose received.] November 3d, eighty going S.--first this winter; wind
strong S.W.; 9th, three on island, two shot.

_Killybegs._--October 24th and November 13th, two to three Barnacle.

_Broadhaven._--October 26th, White-fronted Geese in flocks; remain
until April. November 16th, twenty Barnacle; 26th, flock of Brent Geese
going S.W.

_Eagle Island, W._--February 4th and 7th, five to ten Wild Geese.

_Slyne Head, S._--March 6th, ten Barnacle. December 26th to 29th, a
number on island.

_Arran Island, N._--November 30th and December 18th, a flock of
Barnacle.

_Arran Island, S._--October 10th, eight Wild Geese going S.


"Swans."

_Broadhaven._--December 18th, six "White Swans" going S.W.; wind strong
N.; "numerous on Corclough Lake."


"Ducks."

_Fastnet._--December 7th, six ducks going S.E.--first seen passing for
some time.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--November 26th, two Widgeon going W.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 15th, flock of Duck going S.E. May
5th, eleven Wild Ducks going N.

_Tuskar._--October 20th, small flock going E. November 25th, fifteen
going S.E. December 15th, ten seen.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--December 16th, one caught on deck, 4 A.M.;
gale S.W., clear.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--July 2d, flocks of "Wild Duck," 5 A.M. and
7 A.M.; wind light N, clear. December 3d, flock going N.W.; 24th, six
do.

_Rockabill._--February 8th, ten "Velvet Scoter" going E.; wind fresh S.

_South Maidens._--November 27th, two "Wild Ducks;" gale from S.W.

_North Maidens._--November 6th, one Duck killed striking, 9.30 P.M.;
wind fresh E., misty. [Leg and wing of Common Scoter received.]

_Dunree Head._--February 11th, large flock Widgeon going S.E.; seldom
seen here.

_Tory Island._--October 1st, about forty Widgeon about island. November
15th, seven Teal do.

_Arranmore._--May 12th, two. June 10th, one. January 7th, 1888, two
shot.

_Killybegs._--October 14th, one.

_Broadhaven._--November 18th, seven. December 26th, flocks going S.


Birds not Identified.

_Fastnet._--April 12th, "one bird, name unknown, on rock; wind light
N.W., clear. About the size of a Goldcrest--legs and bill black; back,
bluish-grey; breast and under part of body, light yellow." November
12th, a strange bird larger than a Thrush, 11.30 A.M., on rock; wind
light S.E., gloomy. "This bird was formed like a Thrush; dark mottled
brown on back; cream colour on breast; light brown wings; dark bill and
legs. Never saw one like it before."


       *       *       *       *       *


Transcriber Note


Minor typos corrected. Due to width restrictions in the text version,
some tables were rearranged and some abbreviations employed.






*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS IN
THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1887 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
