The Project Gutenberg eBook of A-Saga, E-Legende, O-Sprook, by J. Bosscha

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: A-Saga, E-Legende, O-Sprook

Author: J. Bosscha
        Jacob van Lennep
        Abr. Des Amorie van der Hoeven

Release Date: August 29, 2021 [eBook #66170]

Language: Dutch


Produced by: Jeroen Hellingman and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net/ for Project Gutenberg

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A-SAGA, E-LEGENDE, O-SPROOK ***



                          A-SAGA.
                               E-LEGENDE.
                                     O-SPROOK.

                             Tweede Oplage.

                               AMSTERDAM,
                        P. N. VAN KAMPEN & ZOON.
                                 1879.








De uitgevers verheugen zich in de gelegenheid te zijn, het
letterkundige publiek hierbij eene litterarische curiositeit aan te
bieden, die ongeveer veertig jaar geleden de algemeene belangstelling
trok als eene proeve van den rijkdom onzer taal en de grondige
taalkennis van de drie bekwame mannen die zich met de samenstelling
daarvan onledig hielden.

De A-Saga toch is van de hand van wijlen Prof. J. Bosscha; de E-Legende
van wijlen Mr. Jacob van Lennep; de O-Sprook van wijlen Dr. Abr. des
Amorie van der Hoeven Jr. Slechts de laatste verscheen in den handel;
de beide eersten werden alleen voor vrienden gedrukt.



Door welwillende toestemming van de betrekkingen der beide
eerstgenoemde auteurs werden de uitgevers in staat gesteld deze
gezamenlijke uitgave te doen plaats hebben.








PAASCHMAANDAG.

A-SAGA.


    ’t Lam was haar kaars.


Alarm, Alarm!” galmt gansch Walacra: want Haralds aanmarsch jaagt angst
aan, aan al wat aâmt.

Harald was Jarl van Laaland. ’t Zwaard—dacht Harald—»baant ’t pad naar
’t Walhalla;” vandaar, dat Harald zwalkt, strand af, strand aan;
vandaar, dat Haralds zwaard landplaag was van al wat aan ’t strand
lag,—Aadlaar van Ran, was vaak Haralds naam.

Thans klampt Harald ’t strand aan van Walacra. Al wat kan, aanvaardt ’t
staal maar. Ach! dag van ramp! Haralds schaar valt aan; ’t slagzwaard
vlamt; landzaat naast landzaat valt: Ja, Harald waagt d’ aanval van
Walacra’s stad, d’ aanval van Aarstad, waar Alward, Markgraaf van
Walacra, standplaats had.

Dáár, zat Ada aan ’t glasraam van Alwards hal; angst prangt haar hart:
want, nadat ’t graf al Ada’s maagschap van haar nam, nam Alwards gâ
haar aan; Alwards gâ lag dáár, waar al Ada’s maagschap was; thans was
Alward haar raadsman, haar arm, haar al. Ach! als Alward valt!—Maar
Aarstad, waar Alwards manschap pal staat, slaat Haralds aanval af:
Laalands schaar nam d’afmarsch aan naar ’t strand.

Wat was Ada zacht van aard! aan al wat arm, aan al wat krank was, gaf
haar hart gaarn al wat haar hand had.—Na d’ afmarsch van Harald’s
manschap, hangt Ada haar mand aan d’ arm, gaat dáár waar ’s landmans
ramp ’t zwaarst was, laaft, vraagt, raadt, paart traan aan traan. Dat
haar pad afdwaalt van Alwards wal,—wat dacht Ada daaraan?—



’t Was nacht; Haralds manschap slaapt; maar Harald zat aan ’t strand.
Naast Harald zat Skalk Adgar.

»Wat was dat daar, Adgar?”—vraagt Harald. »Wat dat was?”—sprak
Adgar—»d’Aardman dwaalt langs ’t strand. Zacht, zacht! Aardman klaagt;
Aardmans klagt was maatzang.”—»Ba! dat gaat lafaards aan, wat Aardman
snapt,” sprak Harald.—Lafaard?—wáár was Adgar dat? maar Adgar las ’t
blad van Braga’s waarspraak, alwaar dat staat wat Braga raadzaam acht
dat d’aard, van al wat haar wacht, raadt.”—»Wat waarspraak was dat dan,
waar g’ aan dacht?” vraagt Harald. Adgar gaat staan, staart strak ’t
maanvlak aan; gansch aandacht, als ’t past, sprak Adgar:


       »Als ’t strand ’s nachts Aardmans klaagzang slaakt,
        Als ’t raafzwart daags aan ’t zwaanblank raakt;
        Als Wara ’t hart van d’Aad’laar blaakt,
        Staat Astara haar naam, haar staf,
        Aan ’t Lam van ’t Karavaanland af.”


Haralds—»Wartaal! wartaal!”—brak Adgars nachtspraak af; maar Adgar
dacht na; want Adgar lascht Aardmans klagt vast aan Braga’s waarspraak.



Landwaarts, aan wat kant Aarstad lag, had Tjalf, Haralds Vasal, twaalf
man van Laalands manschap als wacht staan. ’t Was al dag, althans
d’aanbraak daarvan, als Haralds wachtplaats schalt van Tjalfs galm:
»Vangst! Ha, nachtraaf van Walacra! vangst!”—Tjalf bragt Ada aan; Ada
was Tjalfs vangst.

Langzaam trad Ada naar Harald; haar gang was achtbaar: want Ada’s hart
was kalm. Haar lang haar daalt af langs haar hals, blank als
zwaanvacht; zwart was haar tabbaard, waarlangs haar arm, als van
albast, afhangt.

»Maagd!—vangt Harald aan—naam? maagschap? stand? van waar kwaamt g’ aan
’t kamp van Harald?”—; »Man van ’t zwaard? sprak Ada—wat draalt dat
zwaard? Ada wacht kalm af, wat d’Almagt raadslaagt—Ada!—was thans
Haralds taal—als wraak, als haat Haralds hart aansart, als ’t Walhalla
dat hart aanlacht: dan blaakt dat hart van gramschap; dan vlamt Haralds
hand van ’t slagzwaard. Maar, wars van al wat laag was, van al wat
barbaarsch, was Haralds hart vaak zacht als was.”

Wat Harald daar sprak, brak Ada’s hart, ’t was als gaf ’t haar smart,
dat haar taal wat hard was, wat smaads aanbragt aan Laalands Jarl. Wat
thans haar taal was maakt, dat Harald kan nagaan, van waar z’aan Tjalfs
wacht kwam, wat haar daar bragt. »Maak staat,—sprak Harald—maak staat,
Ada, dat Haralds hart thans zacht slaat. Ada ga, vanwaar Ada kwam maar
als Ada’s dankbaar hart ’t pand was, dat Markgraaf Alward Haralds
handslag aannam, dan maakt, aan ’t strand van Walacra, kamp, manslag,
wandaad, ras plaats aan zang, aan dans, aan gastmaal.”

Wat Ada daarna sprak, laat d’A-Saga daar. Maar alras zat Ada, als ’t
plag, aan ’t glasraam van Alwards hal. Wat thans haar dáár prangd’ aan
’t hart, was, dat Harald Baäl aanbad, dat Harald dat smaadt, waaraan
gansch haar hart hangt.

Wat Harald aangaat, Harald stapt lang, dan aan ’t strand, dan
landwaarts langs ’t pad, dat van ’t kamp naar Aarstad gaat: ’t was
dagklaar, dat daar wat knaagd’ aan ’t hart van Laalands Jarl. Maar
Adgar zat kalm aan ’t strand; Adgar dacht na: want Adgar lascht ’t
blank van Ada naast ’t zwart van haar tabbaard, vast aan Aardmans
klagt, aan Braga’s waarspraak.



Wat Harald sprak van Ada’s dankbaar hart, van handslag, van gastmaal,
was ras daadzaak. Naar d’afspraak, staakt Harald all’ aanval, staat
Haralds kamp vrank aan ’t strand, gaat Laalands manschap, als ’t pas
gaf, naar Aarstad; naast ’t kamp had Walacra’s landman marktplaats.
Vaak kwam Harald naar Aarstad waar dan d’Aadlaar van Ran aanzat aan ’t
gastmaal van Markgraaf Alward; ja, als ’t valt, paart Harald Laalands
zang aan Ada’s harpsnaar. Maar,—wat dag aan dag plaats had, was, dat
d’Abt van Aarstad naar ’t kamp kwam van Harald, waar dan Adgars
handslag ’t warmst was. Wat aandrang ’s mans achtbaar hart als jaagt
naar ’t kamp van Laalands manschap, daarvan waagt alras gansch Walacra,
ja, land aan land. Want, als ’t Paaschmaandag was, bragt d’Abt van
Aarstad Harald, Adgar, Tjalf, tal van Laalands manschap—naar ’t
waschbad, dat d’Almagt aan d’aard gaf als ’t pand van haar raadslag.

Daags daaraan trad Ada aan Haralds hand naar ’t altaar.

»Gaat,—sprak d’Abt van Aarstad,—gaat hand aan hand, hart aan hart.
Kracht van d’Almagt, schraag d’arm van Harald, maar dat Haralds hand
thans ’t zwaard draag van Asa! kaars van ’t hart van Ada, lamp langs ’t
pad van Harald, straal glans af dáár waar ’t nacht was! Dan,—wandlaars
t’ zaam naar ’t graf!—dan wacht namaals dat Canaän, waarnaar ’t hart
smacht van al wat d’Almacht aanbad naar haar raad!”

Thans lag kaag naast kaag klaar aan ’t strand; Haralds Drakar draagt
vlag, krans, palmtak. Alras had d’afvaart plaats van ’t paar; d’afvaart
van Haralds manschap naar Laaland. ’t Was ’t laatst dat strand aan
strand d’Aadlaar van Ran zag. Straks stapt Ada, aan Haralds hand, aan
wal van ’t land vanwaar Harald kwam.

Zwaar was daar Haralds taak: want Laalands Jarls staan naar Haralds
land; ’t raast al van wraak, dat Harald afstaat van ’t Walhalla. Maar
’t zwaard van Harald, ’t hart van Ada, d’aandrang van Adgars taal,
schaard’ al wat braaf was aan Haralds kant. Gansch Laaland draagt
Haralds vaan.

’t Jaar daarna, als ’t Paaschmaandag was, bragt Harald al wat Vasal was
t’ zaam, aan d’afbraak van ’t laatst altaar van Astara. Daar sprak
Adgars krachttaal van ’t Lam, dat was van d’aanvang af. Dankbaar zag
Harald Ada aan; Harald dacht aan ’t strand, waar Adgar sprak van ’t Lam
van Braga’s waarspraak: Astara’s naamdag was thans Paaschmaandag.



    -------------------------------------------------------------------
    Walacra, onbekend gedeelte van Oud-Holland of Zeeland.—Jarl,
    Opperhoofd bij de Noormannen.—Walhalla, Helden-paradijs.—Ran, Godin
    der Zee.—Braga, Bescherm-God der Skalden, God der poëzy en der
    profecy.—Wara, Godin der Liefde.—Astara, Oostersche naam van de
    Godin Easter of Ostra, naar welke Paschen in ’t Hoogduitsch Ostern,
    in het Engelsch Eastern heet.—Asa, II Chron. XIV: vs. 2 en
    volgg.—Drakar, voornaam schip van de Noormannen.
    -------------------------------------------------------------------








DE E-LEGENDE.


    Lees—en Beef!


Een vreemde heerscher betreedt Berthes erfdeel. Geen der edelen
wederspreekt des wreeden Werners recht, het recht des sterksten. De
vreemde heerscher, ten zetel der Wenden verheven, geeft het bevel:
»Breng Berthe weg. Geen mensch helpe de zwervende: geen mensch geve der
vernederde eten, dek en legerstede.”

Zeven weken heeft de verwezene Berthe het zwervend leven gerekt en
geweend. Geen mensch vergezelde de wees, des edelen Egberts telg. Geen
klepper, geen ezel zelf bereed ze.—De teedere wees heeft vergeefs
gesmeekt. Nergens een helper: nergens verstrekt men Berthe legerstede
en herberg. De peen, de bessen des velds geven eten: de beek en de melk
des vees drenken de zwervende.

Berthe bestreedt geen bekende streken meer: het felle weer, de ellende,
het leed bestelpen de tengere wees.

De breede zee lekt den verhevenen berg. Een herder scheert het kleene
vee: de weenende Berthe treedt hem tegen en smeekt met een bezweken
stem, een beetje eten. De herder brengt het: meel en reevleesch
versterken de stervende, en, veel meer, des herders redenen. De
vergeten herder heeft de sterrenbeelden leeren kennen, en weet den
mensch te spellen, hetgeen hem de Hemel eens bestemt en bedeelt. De
herder, met Berthe neergezeten, leest de teekenen des Hemels en spreekt
deze regels:


           »Wen ’t wezeltjen den Held verzelt,
            En hem de Beer een preek vertelt,
            Heerscht Berthe weer, met eer hersteld.”


De herder heeft gezwegen en wenkt Berthe, verder te trekken. Ze heeft
hem begeven. Steeds beklemmen vrees en wee het herte der weeze. Weer
zeven weken zwerft ze verder en verder, en wenscht te sterven.

De lente verdween. Berken en esschen en elzen werden geel. Geen vee
betreedt meer het veld en deelt melk mede. De regen klettert: meeren en
beken zwellen. Berthe verwenscht het leven en het levenswee. Het
sterven, denkt ze, geeft vrede: geen leed, geen letsel deert meer.
Tegen een berg gezeten, smeekt ze den Hemel, den engel des verderfs te
zenden. Wee! het steen beweegt: nevens de bevende Berthe treedt een
beer met gesperden bek.—Neen!—Het gevreesde beest werpt het beerenvel
weg. Het kleed bedekte en verbergde den Deken der Stevenskerk, den
geëerden Peter, mede geweken wegens de vergedreven wreedheden des
wrevelen Werners.

Berthe herleeft: ze spreekt met Peter en meldt hem de redenen des
herders. Sprekende vernemen ze ergens een gewemel en het wrenschen eens
rennenden kleppers. Een derde zwerver betreedt de plek. Ver heeft de
vreemde gereden: het zweet bedekt hem en den klepper. De heldendegen
knettert hem tegen de lendenen.

De vreemde held heeft den knellenden helm nedergezet. Hemel! Berthe
verbleekt: de helm heeft ten veldteeken een wezel. Ze herkent
Ethelbert, den Zweed.—De Deken der Stevenskerk spreekt met hem en meldt
hem hetgeen de wreede Werner deed, en schetst hem Berthes leed en
tegenheden. Het wezen des edelen Ethelberts betrekt. Den wrevelen
Werner verwenschende, trekt de held den scherpen degen en zweert,
Berthes redder en helper te wezen en Egberts telg ten zetel te
herstellen. De preek des verkleeden Peters heeft gewerkt. Berthe
herdenkt des herders redenen en hetgeen deze spelde.

Ethelbert heeft sterke benden vereend: de veldteekenen geven dezen
regel te lezen: »Berthe leve en regeere! De wreede Werner sterve!”

Werner heeft mede het veld met legers bedekt. Men velt de speeren: men
trekt het welgewet geweer, de degens kletteren. Berthes held heeft het
gevreesde lemmer geheven en rent den wrevelen Werner tegen. Des degens
scherpe snede heeft Werners sterken helm gespleten, en deze,
neergezegen, heeft den veegen geest gegeven. Geen der metgezellen des
vreemden heerschers wederstreeft meer den edelen Zweed: enkelen sneven,
velen vreezen en smeeken het leven; de meesten leggen degens en speeren
neder. Ethelbert heeft den zege. Berthes wreker geeft der weeze het
erfdeel der Wenden weder. De teedere Berthe zweert het te deelen met
den edelen beschermer: eene stem, een kreet: »Ethelbert strekke den
Wenden ten Heer en meester! Ethelbert leve en heersche met Berthe!”
vereent edelen en gemeen ter eere des Zweedschen helds. Hem heffen ze
met Berthe ten zetel.

De Deken der Stevenskerk heeft den echt gezegend. Vete en wrevel hebben
gezwegen, Berthe vergeet het geleden leed: de Hemel verleent zegen en
vrede, en hetgeen de legende wegens hen vermeldt neemt een


                            END.


    Lennep,
    den zevenden September.








COLHOLMS ROOS.

O-SPROOK.


    Motto: ’t Schoon lokt tot roof.


Olof troont op Colholms slot, rondom door golf op golf omzoomd:
Noordstorm op Noordstorm floot door boog, poort, top. Toch pronkt op
Olofs slot Colholms roos, Oldgond: jong, schoon, blond.

Hoor! Olofs hoorn klonk, Olofs woord vloog rond; Noor op Noor spoort ’t
ros, ront, loopt, komt;—’t slot wordt vol volks. Olofs looz’ klonk:
oorlog! oorlog!—’t Oog vonkt toorn.

»Olofs mond noodt ons, Olofs hoorn noopt ons: Vorst! ’t word’ ons kond,
zoo zorg of nood ontstond voor Colholm”—

Bornholms Vorst, Otto, komt! Otto somt d’ oorsprong op tot Thor; Otto’s
dolk wordt rood door moord op moord. Olof schroomt Otto noch ook
Thor,—doch zorg voorkomt nood. Otto zond boô op boô om Oldgond;
Oldgonds schoon ontvonkt’ Otto’s borst; ook komt blos op blos op
Oldgonds koon, zoo Otto’s boot Colholms kom klooft. Doch Olof zon op ’t
voorspook,—Wolf zong ’t:


              ’t Noodlot wordt kond
                  Door Wolfs mond:
              Colholms roos, Oldgond,
              Pronk’ op Colholms grond;
                Schoon Olofs zorg,
                Toch Olofs borg:
            Zoo Oldgond wordt ontroofd,
            ’t Kost Olof troon, slot, hoofd.—


Zoo hoord’ Olof noch Otto, noch Oldgond. Otto bood bond of oorlog;
oorlog koos Olof. Colholms slotvoogd sloot Oldgond op.”—

Nog ontvloot ’t woord Olofs mond,—op! op! klonk door ’t slot; Otto
komt! Boot op boot, vlot op vlot, kog op kog klooft Colholms
kom!—»Noor, vorst of volk, volg Olof!” Olof vloog voor. ’t Volk sprong
op; ’t gordt dolk of pook om; ’t torscht boog, knods, pols, rotsbrok,
’t slot op; ’t lood smolt, kookt,—zoo Otto soms storm koos. »Voor
Colholm, voor Oldgond!” klonk ’s volks looz’.—»Schroom. boos rot! roof
zocht Bornholms vorst,—dood wordt Otto’s loon.”—

Doch Otto?—Noch dorst tot roof, noch oorlogsvonk toogt Otto. Doch
Otto’s borst klopt hoog voor Oldgonds schoon; Olof sloot ’t oor, schoon
Otto som op som bood voor Oldgond; Oldgond zond boô op boô tot Otto;
doof ook voor Oldgond, sloot Olof Colholms roos op. Droom op droom komt
voor Otto’s spond. Oldgond spookt Bornholms vorst voor ’t oog: drop op
drop blonk op Olgonds koon; ’t hoofd, omzoomd door lok op lok, hong op
Olgonds borst (Zoo toch ’t wolkvocht droop op roos, koorn, ooftknop,
trok roos noch ooftknop ’t hoofd omhoog, voor ’t vocht ontloopt of ’t
zonros drop voor drop opslorpt;—zoo boog Colholms roos ’t vocht oog, ’t
blond hoofd). Ook hoort Otto soms Oldgonds toon, zoo schoon of ’t
boschkoor zong; doch ’t nokt ook zoo dof, zoo domp, of golf op golf
klotst’ op boot of rots. Nog schroomt Bornholms vorst oorlog, roof,
moord. Doch Gothold komt;—Gothold doorgrondt ’t Noodlot. Door Thors
bosch doolt Gothold rond, loof of mos voor spond, noot of schors voor
brood, bronvocht voor dronk. ’t Rood koord omgordt Gotholds wolfsbont;
Thors dolk pronkt op Gotholds borst; Thors stok schoort Gotholds romp.
Wol wordt Gotholds lok, hoog ’t voorhoofd; doch oog noch oor wordt
stomp,—nog doorgrondt Gothold ’t Noodlot.

Gothold stond voor Otto; ’t voorhoofd fronst, ’t oog vonkt. »Op, zoon
Thors! Colholms roos dort, tot Otto komt. Poot Colholms roos op
Bornholms grond. Thor zond Gothold!”—

Zoo toog Otto voort tot Colholm. D’ oorlog dook op, spookt ’t slot
rond, stroopt ’t oord bloot. Boog op boog schoot; rotsbrok op rotsbrok
gonst, ploft op boot, kog, vlot. Rood wordt Colholms kom door moord op
moord. Olofs woord klonk: »o hoon, zoo Otto Olof dwong, Oldgond won!”
Otto noopt ’t volk: »o hoon, zoo ’t slot ons ontsprong, of Olof ’t
ontkomt! op, op! voort, voort! Drom op drom storm’ ’t slot!”—’s Volks
borst jookt; ’t hoopt op lof of loon. Schot op schot vloog rond, of
wolk op wolk ’t vocht goot, zoo ’t door Noordstorm stold’ of vroor tot
brok op brok. ’t Lood droop op ’t hoofd, door d’oorlogsrok tot op ’t
bloot. Toch drong Otto voort; toch won Otto poort voor poort, post voor
post. Nog klonk Olofs oorlogslooz’: »Voor Colholm! voor Oldgond!” Doch,
hoor,—dof bomt Colholms noodklok. Hoogrood golft rookkolom op rookkolom
rond door boog, poort, goot; ’t glom, ’t koolt, ’t gloort; ’t vonkt
voort, ros stroomt ’t op tot dom, top, nok. ’t Volk roost door vonk of
smoort door rook; ’t wordt hooploos. »’t Wordt stond tot storm!” klonk
Otto’s woord. Bornholms vorst klom op; ’t volk vlood, of—zoo ’t nog
schoold’ of vocht—’t stort voor Otto’s knods. Dol stormt Otto voort
door poort, boog, hol;—Oldgond zocht Otto. Hoor!—’t slot sprong, ’t
slot vloog op;—Oldgond stond voor Otto’s oog, schoon, blond, jong. Hoog
bloosd’ Oldgonds koon. Otto stond stom, Otto vond tong noch woord.....
»Los, los! snood, godloos vorst! Dood volgt roof!” klonk Olofs woord.
Olof stort poort, boog, rook door, op Otto. Hoog blonk Olofs dolk,
blootshoofds stond Otto;—doch Bornholms vorst sprong op, boog ’t
hoofd—Olofs stoot stompt op Otto’s dolkknop. Olof stort;—doch Oldgond
boog ’t hoofd voor Otto: »Colholms roos dronk toch Olofs bronvocht,
Olof zond toch brood voor Oldgond!”—»Loof Thor, Noor!” klonk Otto’s
woord: »om Oldgond wordt noch Otto’s dolk noch Olofs borst rood.”—Doch
’s Noodlots stond komt: Wolf zong ’t:


            Wordt Colholms roos ontroofd,
            ’t Kost Olof slot, troon, hoofd.


’t Woord vloog nog op Otto’s tong, nog stond Otto’s pook op Olofs
strot,—och, Colholms slotvoogd, vol wrok, boog ’t hoofd, wrong ’t
forsch los, sprong op.... schroom, Otto!—Doch Otto zorgt; Otto toomt
Olofs sprong; Otto’s dolk doorboort Olofs borst door wond op wond.



Ton, toorts, kroon, vonkt op Bornholms slot. Otto schonk dronk op dronk
rond; Oldgond dost ’t blond hoofd door roos op roos.—’t Zonros vloog ’t
bolrond om, rond op rond. Zoon op zoon zoog Oldgonds borst of sprong op
Otto’s schoot.

Noô komt ’t volk tot Colholms slot: Olofs spook doolt rond door poort,
hol, boog.

Gothold, Thors tolk, zong d’ O-sprook voor Otto’s kroost.—


                            SLOT.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A-SAGA, E-LEGENDE, O-SPROOK ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
