The Project Gutenberg eBook of Notes and Queries, Number 205, October 1,
1853, by George Bell

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Notes and Queries, Number 205, October 1, 1853
       A Medium of Inter-communication for Literary Men, Artists,
       Antiquaries, Geneologists, etc

Author: Various

Editor: George Bell

Release Date: September 1, 2021 [eBook #66199]

Language: English


Produced by: Charlene Taylor, Jonathan Ingram and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The Internet
             Library of Early Journals.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NOTES AND QUERIES, NUMBER 205,
OCTOBER 1, 1853 ***





{309}

NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

       *       *       *       *       *


="When found, make a note of."=--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *


    No. 205.]
    SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1. 1853.
    [Price Fourpence.
    Stamped Edition, 5_d._

       *       *       *       *       *




CONTENTS.


    NOTES:--                                                     Page

      The Groaning-board, a Story of the Days of Charles II.,
      by Dr. E. F. Rimbault                                       309

      The Etymology of the Word "Awkward"                         310

      Inedited Poem--"The Deceitfulness of Love," by
      Chris. Roberts                                              311

      Bale MSS., referred to in Tanner's "Bibliotheca
      Britannico-Hibernica," by Sir F. Madden                     311

      Charles Fox and Gibbon                                      312

      Samuel Williams                                             312

      Shakspeare Correspondence, by Samuel Hickson, &c.           313

      MINOR NOTES:--Doings of the Calf's Head Club--Epitaph
      by Wordsworth--Tailor's "Cabbage"--Misquotations--The
      Ducking Stool--Watch-paper Inscription                      315

    QUERIES:--

      Birthplace of Gen. Monk, by F. Kyffin Lenthall              316

      MINOR QUERIES:--Harmony of the Four Gospels--The
      Noel Family--Council of Trent--Roman Catholic
      Patriarchs--The "Temple Lands" in Scotland--Cottons
      of Fowey--Draught or Draft of Air--Admiral Sir Thomas
      Tyddeman--Pedigree Indices--Apparition of the White
      Lady--Rundlestone--Tottenham--Duval Family--Noses of the
      Descendants of John of Gaunt--General Wall--John Daniel
      and Sir Ambrose Nicholas Salter--Edward Bysshe--President
      Bradshaw and John Milton                                    316

      MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Ket the
      Tanner--"Namby-pamby"                                       318

    REPLIES:--

      Editions of Books of Common Prayer, by the Rev.
      Thomas Lathbury, &c.                                        318

      The Crescent, by J. W. Thomas                               319

      Seals of the Borough of Great Yarmouth                      321

      Moon Superstitions, by J. N. Radcliffe and G. William
      Skyring                                                     321

      Latin Riddle, by the Rev. Robert Gibbings                   322

      "Hurrah!" by Sir J. E. Tennent and J. Sansom                323

      PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Process for Printing
      on Albumenized Paper                                        324

      REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Anderson's Royal
      Genealogies--Thomas Wright of Durham--Weather
      Predictions--Bacon's Essays: Bullaces--Nixon the
      Prophet--Parochial Libraries--"Ampers and," &c.--The
      Arms of De Sissonne--St. Patrick's Purgatory--Sir
      George Carr--Gravestone Inscription--"A Tub to
      the Whale"--Hour-glasses in Pulpits--Slow-worm
      Superstition--Sincere--Books chained to Desks
      in Churches: Seven Candlesticks--D. Ferrand:
      French Patois--Wood of the Cross--'Ladies'
      Arms in a Lozenge--Burial in unconsecrated
      Ground--Table-turning--"Well's a fret"--Tenet
      for Tenent                                                  326

    MISCELLANEOUS:--

      Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                330

      Notices to Correspondents                                   330

      Advertisements                                              331

       *       *       *       *       *




Notes.


THE GROANING-BOARD, A STORY OF THE DAYS OF CHARLES II.

The English public has ever been distinguished by an enormous amount of
gullibility.

    "Ha ha, ha ha! this world doth pass
      Most merrily I'll be sworn;
    For many an honest Indian ass
      Goes for an unicorn."

So sung old Thomas Weelkes in the year 1608, and so echo we in the year
1853! What with "spirit-rapping," "table-moving," "Chelsea ghosts,"
"Aztec children," &c., we shall soon, if we go on at the same rate, get
the reputation of being past all cure.

In looking over, the other day, a volume in the Museum, marked MS. Sloane
958., I noticed the following hand-bill pasted on the first page:

    "At the sign of the Wool-sack, in Newgate Market, is to be seen
    a strange and wonderful thing, which is an _elm board_, being
    touched with a hot iron, doth express itself as if it were a
    man dying _with groans_, and trembling, to the great admiration
    of all the hearers. It hath been presented before the king and
    his nobles, and hath given great satisfaction. _Vivat Rex._"

At the top of the bill is the king's arms, and the letters C. R., and in
an old hand is written the date 1682. On the same page is an autograph of
the original possessor of the volume, "Ex libris Jo. Coniers, Londini,
pharmacopol, 1673."

In turning to Malcolm (_Anecdotes of the Manners and Customs of London_,
4to. 1811, p. 427.), we find the following elucidation of this mysterious
exhibition:

    "One of the most curious and ingenious amusements ever offered
    to the publick ear was contrived in the year 1682, when an elm
    plank was exhibited to the king and the credulous of London,
    which being touched by a hot iron, invariably produced a sound
    resembling deep groans. This sensible, and very irritable
    board, received numbers of noble visitors; and other boards,
    sympathising with their afflicted brother, demonstrated how
    much affected they might be by similar means. The publicans
    in different parts of the city immediately applied ignited
    metal to all the woodwork of their houses, in hopes of finding
    sensitive timber; but I do {310} not perceive any were so
    successful as the landlord of the Bowman Tavern in Drury Lane,
    who had a mantle tree so extremely prompt and loud in its
    responses, that the sagacious observers were nearly unanimous
    in pronouncing it part of the same trunk which had afforded the
    original plank."

The following paragraph is also given by Malcolm from the _Loyal London
Mercury_, Oct. 4, 1682:

    "Some persons being this week drinking at the Queen's Arms
    Tavern, in St. Martin's-le-Grand, in the kitchen, and
    having laid the fire-fork in the fire to light their pipes,
    accidentally fell a discoursing of the _groaning-board_, and
    what might be the cause of it. One in the company, having the
    fork in his hand to light his pipe, would needs make trial of
    a long dresser that stood there, which, upon the first touch,
    made a great noise and groaning, more than ever the board that
    was showed did; and then they touched it three or four times,
    and found it far beyond the other. They all having seen it, the
    house is almost filled with spectators day and night, and any
    company calling for a glass of wine may see it; which, in the
    judgment of all, is far louder, and makes a longer groan than
    the other; which to report, unless seen, would seem incredible."

Among the _Bagford Ballads_ in the Museum (three vols., under the
press-mark 643. m.) is preserved the following singular broadside upon
the subject, which is now reprinted for the first time:

    "A NEW SONG, ON THE STRANGE AND WONDERFUL GROANING-BOARD.

    "What fate inspir'd thee with groans,
      To fill phanatick brains?
    What is't thou sadly thus bemoans,
      In thy prophetick strains?

    "Art thou the ghost of _William Pryn_,
      Or some old politician?
    Who, long tormented for his sin,
      Laments his sad condition?

    "Or must we now believe in thee,
      The old cheat transmigration?
    And that thou now art come to be
      A call to reformation?

    "The giddy vulgar to thee run,
      Amaz'd with fear and wonder;
    Some dare affirm, that hear thee groan,
      Thy noise is petty thunder.

    "One says and swears, you do foretell
      A change in Church and State;
    Another says, you like not well
      Your master _Stephen's_ fate.[1]

    "Some say you groan much like a _whigg_,
      Or rather like a _ranter_;
    Some say as loud, and full as big,
      As _Conventicle Canter_.

    "Some say you do petition,
      And think you represent
    The woe and sad condition
      Of Old _Rump Parliament_.

    "The wisest say you are a cheat;
      Another politician
    Says, 'tis a misery as great
      And true as _Hatfield's vision_.[2]

    "Some say, 'tis a _new evidence_,
      Or witness of the _plot_;
    And can discover many things
      Which are the Lord knows what.

    "And lest you should the _plot_ disgrace,
      For wanting of a name,
    _Narrative Board_ henceforth we'll place
      In registers of fame.

    "London: Printed for T. P. in the year 1682."

The extraordinary and long-lived popularity of the "groaning-board" is
fully evinced by the number of cotemporary allusions: a few will suffice.

Mrs. Mary Astell, in her _Essay in Defence of the Female Sex_, 1696,
speaking of the character of a "coffee-house politician," observes:

    "He is a mighty listener after prodigies: and never hears of
    a whale or a comet, but he apprehends some sudden revolution
    in the state, and looks upon a _groaning-board_, or a
    speaking-head, as forerunners of the day of judgment."

Swift, in his _Tale of a Tub_, written in the following year (1697), says
of Jack:

    "He wore a large plaister of artificiall causticks on his
    stomach, with the fervor of which he would set himself a
    _groaning_ like the famous _board_ upon application of a
    red-hot iron."

Steele, in the 44th number of the _Tatler_, speaking of Powell, the
"puppet showman," says:

    "He has not brains enough to make even wood speak as it ought
    to do: and I, that have heard the _groaning-board_, can despise
    all that his puppets shall be able to speak as long as they
    live."

So much for the "story" of the _groaning-board_. As to "how it was done,"
we leave the matter open to the reader's sagacity.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

[Footnote 1: This was _Stephen_ College, a joiner by trade, but a man
of an active and violent spirit, who, making himself conspicuous by his
opposition to the Court, obtained the name of the Protestant joiner. His
fate is well known.]

[Footnote 2: Martha Hatfield, a child twelve years old in Sept. 1652, who
pretended to have visions "concerning Christ, faith, and other subjects."
She was a second edition of the "holy maid of Kent."]

       *       *       *       *       *


THE ETYMOLOGY OF THE WORD "AWKWARD."

Most persons who have given their attention to the formation of words,
and have employed their leisure in endeavouring to trace them to their
source, must have remarked that there are many words in the English
language which show on the {311} part of learned philologists, the
compilers of dictionaries, either a strange deficiency in reading, or a
want of acquaintance with the older tongues: or perhaps, if we must find
an excuse for them, a habit of "nodding."

The word _awkward_ is one of these. Skinner's account is as follows:

    "Ineptus, ἀμφαριστερός, præposterus, ab A.-S. æþerd perversus;
    hoc ab _æ_ præp. loquelari negativa privativa, et _weard_,
    versus."

Johnson follows Skinner, interpreting _awkward_ in the same way, and with
the same derivation; but unfortunately he had met with the little word
_awk_, and, not caring to inquire into the origin of it, as it seemed so
plain, he explains it as "a barbarous contraction of _awkward_," giving
the following example from L'Estrange:

    "We have heard as arrant jingling in the pulpits as the
    steeples; and the professors ringing as _awk_ as the bells to
    give notice of the conflagration."

Now the real state of the case is, that just as _forward_ and _backward_
are correlatives, so also are _toward_ and _awkward_. We speak of a
_toward_ child as one who is quick and ready and apt; while, by an
_awkward_ one, we mean precisely the contrary. By the former we imply a
disposition or readiness to press on to the mark; by the latter, that
which is averse to it, and fails of the right way. Parallel instances,
though of course not corresponding in meaning, are found in the Latin
_adversus_, _reversus_, _inversus_, _aversus_.

The term _awkward_ is compounded of the two A.-S. words _aweg_ or _awæg_
(which is itself made up of _a_, from, and _wæg_, a way), meaning away,
out: "auferendi vim habet," says Bosworth, of which we have an instance
in _aweg weorpan_, to throw away; and _weard_, toward, as in _hamweard_,
homewards. We thus have the correlatives _to-weard_ and _aweg-weard_,
with the same termination, but with prefixes of exactly opposite
meanings. In the latter word, the prefix would naturally come to be
pronounced as one syllable, and the _g_ as naturally converted into _k_.

The propriety of the use of the word _awkward_ by Shakspeare, in the
Second Part of Henry VI., Act III. Sc. 2., is thus rendered apparent:

    "And twice by awkward wind from England's bank,
    Drove back again," &c.,

_i.e._ untoward wind, or contrary: an epithet which editors, while they
thought it required an apology, have been unable to explain rightly.

With regard to the word _awk_, I can only say that it is one of very
unfrequent occurrence; I have met with it but once in the course of my
own reading, so that I am unable to confirm my view as fully as I could
wish; still, that one instance seems, as far as it goes, satisfactory
enough: it occurs in Golding's translation of Ovid's _Metam._, London,
1567, fol. 177. p. 2.:

    "She sprincled us with bitter jewce of uncouth herbes, and strake
    The _awk_ end of her charmed rod uppon our heads, and spake
    Woordes to the former contrarie," &c.

The _awk_ end here is, of course, the wrong end, that which was not
_towards_ them.

Perhaps some of the readers of "N. & Q." may have met with other
instances of the usage of the word. It does not occur in Chaucer nor (I
am pretty sure) in Gower.

H. C. K.

       *       *       *       *       *


INEDITED POEM.--"THE DECEITFULNESS OF LOVE."

The following lines, written about 1600, are, I think, well worthy of
preservation in your columns. I believe they have never been published;
but if any of your correspondents should have met with them, and can
inform me of the author, I shall feel much obliged.

CHRIS. ROBERTS.

Bradford, Yorkshire.

    _Deceitfulness of Love._

    Go, sit by the summer sea,
      Thou, whom scorn wasteth,
    And let thy musing be
      Where the flood hasteth.
    Mark how o'er ocean's breast
    Rolls the hoar billow's crest;
    Such is his heart's unrest
      Who of love tasteth.

    Griev'st thou that hearts should change?
      Lo! where life reigneth,
    Or the free sight doth range,
      What long remaineth?
    Spring with her flow'rs doth die;
    Fast fades the gilded sky;
    And the full moon on high
      Ceaselessly waneth.

    Smile, then, ye sage and wise;
      And if love sever
    Bonds which thy soul doth love,
      Such does it ever!
    Deep as the rolling seas,
    Soft as the twilight breeze,
    But of _more_ than these
      Boast could it never!

       *       *       *       *       *


BALE MSS., REFERRED TO IN TANNER'S "BIBLIOTHECA BRITANNICO-HIBERNICA."

Most persons who consult this laborious and useful work will probably
have been struck and puzzled by the frequent occurrence of two references
given by the Bishop as his authorities, namely, "MS. Bal. Sloan." and
"MS. Bal. Glynn." {312} To answer, therefore (by anticipation), a Query
very likely to be made on this subject, I have to state, that by "MS.
Bal. Sloan." Tanner refers to a manuscript work in two volumes, in Bale's
handwriting, formerly in Sir Hans Sloane's collection, and numbered 287,
but presented by him to the Bodleian Library; as appears by a letter from
Hearne to Baker (in MS. Harl. 7031. f. 142.), dated August 6, 1715, in
which he writes:

    "We have _Bale's accounts of the Carmelites_, in two volumes,
    being not long since given to our public library by Dr. Sloane."

In the original MS. Sloane Catalogue, the work was thus entered: _Joannes
Balæus de sanctis et illustribus viris Ordinis Carmelitarum, et eorum
Scriptis: Joannis Balæi Annales Carmelitarum_. Another volume, partly,
if not wholly, in Bale's handwriting, relative to the Carmelite Order,
existed formerly in the Cottonian Library, under the press-mark Otho, D.
IV., but was almost entirely destroyed in the fire which took place in
1731.

By "MS. Bal. Glynn.," or (as more fully referred to under "Adamus
Carthusiensis") "MS. Bale penes D. Will. Glynn.," Tanner undoubtedly
means a printed copy of Bale's _Scriptorum Illustrium Majoris Brytanniæ
Catalogus_, with marginal notes in manuscript (probably by Bale himself)
which was preserved in the library of Sir William Glynne, Bart., of
Anbrosden. I learn this from Tanner's original Memoranda for his
_Bibliotheca_, preserved in the Additional MSS. 6261. 6262., British
Museum; in the former of which, ff. 122--124., is a transcript of the
"MS. notæ in margine Balei, penes D. Will. Glynne." The Glynne MSS. are
described in the _Catt. MSS. Angliæ_, fol. 1697, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 49.;
but the copy of Bale, here mentioned, is not included among them. These
MSS. are said to be preserved at present in the library of Christ Church
College, Oxford; and it is somewhat singular, that no account of the MSS.
in this college should have been printed, either in the folio Catalogue
of 1697, or in the valuable Catalogue of the MSS. in the college
libraries recently published. Perhaps some of the correspondents of "N. &
Q." may communicate information on this head.

F. MADDEN.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHARLES FOX AND GIBBON.

The following is taken from the fly-leaves of my copy of Gibbon's _Rome_,
1st vol. 1779, 8vo.:

    "The following anecdote and verses were written by the late
    Charles James Fox in the first volume of _his_ Gibbon's
    _Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire_.

    "The author of this work declared publicly at Brookes's (a
    gaming-house in St. James' Street), upon the delivery of the
    Spanish Rescript in June, 1779, that there was no salvation
    for this country unless six of the heads of the cabinet
    council were cut off and laid upon the tables of both houses
    of parliament as examples; and in less than a fortnight he
    accepted a place under the same cabinet council.

    "ON THE AUTHOR'S PROMOTION TO THE BOARD OF TRADE IN 1779.
    By the Right Hon. C. J. Fox.

      "King George in a fright
      Lest Gibbon should write
    The story of Britain's disgrace,
      Thought no means more sure
      His pen to secure
    Than to give the historian a place.

      "But his caution is vain,
      'Tis the curse of his reign
    That his projects should never succeed;
      Tho' he wrote not a line,
      Yet a cause of decline
    In our author's example we read.

      "His book well describes
      How corruption and bribes
    O'erthrew the great empire of Rome;
      And his writings declare
      A degeneracy there,
    Which his conduct exhibits at home."

G. M. B.

       *       *       *       *       *


SAMUEL WILLIAMS.

The obituary of the past week records the death of Samuel Williams, a
self-taught artist, whose pencil and graver have illustrated very many
of the most popular works during the last forty years, and to whose
productions the modern school of book-illustrations owes its chief force
and character. Samuel Williams was born Feb. 23, 1788, at Colchester in
Essex; and during his very earliest years, his self-taught powers were
remarkable, as he could draw or copy with the greatest ease anything
he saw; and he would get up at early dawn, before the other members of
the family were stirring, to follow the bent of his genius. His boyish
talents attracted much notice, and, had he not been very diffident,
would have brought him before the world as a painter. In 1802, he was
apprenticed to Mr. J. Marsden, a printer in Colchester, and thenceforward
his pencil was destined to be employed in illustrating books. Whilst yet
a lad, he etched on copper a frontispiece to a brochure entitled the
_Coggeshall Volunteers_; and this was a remarkable production, as he had
never seen etching or engraving on copper; and he about the same time
taught himself engraving on wood, executing numerous little cuts for Mr.
Marsden: amongst others, a frontispiece to a _History of Colchester_.
So much was his talent seen by parties calling at his employer's, that
Mr. Crosby, a publisher of some note in his day, promised that, when his
apprenticeship ended, he {313} should draw and engrave for him a natural
history; and this promise was faithfully performed, and a series of
three hundred cuts given to him immediately. Besides these, he executed
numerous commissions for Mozley, Darton and Harvey, Arliss's _Pocket
Magazine_, and other works; in all which a strong natural feeling and
vigorous drawing were leading characteristics.

In 1809 he visited London for a short time, and returned to Colchester;
and resided there till 1819, when he settled in London. In 1822, Mr. C.
Whittingham published an edition of _Robinson Crusoe_, the illustrations
to which are drawn and engraved by the subject of this notice; and the
freedom of handling, as compared with cotemporary works, was conspicuous.
After these, Trimmer's _Natural History_, published by Whittingham; the
illustrations to Wiffin's _Garcilasso de la Vega_; and other works,
showed his talents as a designer as well as engraver.

In 1825, William Hone started his _Every-Day Book_, employing Mr.
Williams to make the drawings for the "Months," and other illustrations;
and the peculiar style, like pen-and-ink sketches, attracted much notice,
the freedom and ease of these drawings being greatly admired; and some
of our present artists confess to having been first taught by copying
the free off-hand sketches in Hone's _Every-Day Book_. A second volume
followed in 1846, and the _Table Book_ in 1847; in 1848 the _Olio_ was
published, and afterwards the _Parterre_; both works remarkable for their
spirited illustrations. Several of the engravings to the _London Stage_,
1847, displayed great variety of expression in the figures and faces.
Howitt's _Rural Life of England_, Selby's _Forest Trees_, Thomson's
_Seasons_ (the edition published by Bogue), Miller's _Pictures of Country
Life_, all drawn and engraved by him, exhibit exquisite rural "bits," in
which, like Bewick, Samuel Williams could express with the graver the
touch of his pencil, thus far excelling his cotemporaries. The _Memorials
of the Martyrs_ was the last work on which he exercised his double skill.
Of works not drawn by himself, Wiffin's _Tasso_ shows some of his best
efforts; but as for years past he had been engaged on most of the best
works of the day, it is impossible to specify all. Had he devoted his
time to painting, which the constant employment with pencil and graver
prevented, he would have taken high rank as a painter of rural life, as
his pictures of "Sketching a Countryman," and "Interior of a Blacksmith's
Shop," exhibited in the Royal Academy when at Somerset House, testify,
as they are marked by perfect drawing and admirable expression. Some
miniatures on ivory, painted in his very youthful days, are marvellous
for close manipulation and correct likeness. After a long and painful
illness, borne with great fortitude, Mr. Williams expired on the 19th
September, his wife having predeceased him not quite six weeks, leaving
behind him four sons.

J. T.

       *       *       *       *       *


SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.

_On a Passage in the Second Part of Henry IV.--The Death of Falstaff._--I
have read with much pleasure your very temperate remarks on the fiery
contributions of some of your correspondents; and I trust that, after
so gentle a rebuke from certainly the most good-natured Editor living,
all will henceforth go "merry as a marriage bell." Amongst the lore that
I have picked up since my first acquaintance with "N. & Q.," is that
profound truth,

    "'Tis a very good world that we live in:"

but I must say I think it would be a very dull one if we all thought
alike; as "N. & Q." would be a very dull book if it were not seasoned
with differences of opinion, and its pages diversified with discussions
and ingenious argument. And what can be more agreeable, when, like an
animated conversation, it is conducted with fairness and good temper?

However, now we are to start fair again; and to begin with a difference,
I must presume to question a decision of your own which I would fain see
recalled. I believe with you that MR. COLLIER'S _Notes and Emendations_
gives the true reading of the passage in _Henry V._, "on a table of
green frieze," and I, moreover, think that Theobald's conjecture "and 'a
babbled o' green fields," was worthy of any poet. Theobald was engaged
in the laborious work of minute verbal correction, and necessarily took
an isolated view of particular passages. Presenting the difficulty which
this passage did, his suggestion was a happy and poetical thought. But
when you say that the scholiast excelled his author, we must take another
view of the case. The question is not as to which passage is the most
poetical, but which is most in place; which was the idea most natural
to be expressed. And in this I think you will admit that Shakspeare's
judgment must be deferred to, and that taking the character of Falstaff,
_together with the other circumstances detailed of his death_, it is not
natural that he should be represented as "babbling o' green fields."

You are aware that Fielding, in his _Journey from this World to the
next_, met with Shakspeare, who, in answer to a similar question to that
put to Göthe, gave a like answer to the one you report. This arises in
a great measure from the imperfection of language; the most careful
writers at times express themselves obscurely. But with regard to Ben
Jonson, I should say that, though neither a mean nor an unfriendly
critic, he was certainly a prejudiced one. He saw Shakspeare from
the conventional-classic point of view, and {314} would doubtless
have "blotted" much that we should have regretted submitting to his
judgment. Yet, after all, the anecdote is not according to the fact.
Shakspeare _did_ "blot" thousands of lines, probably many more than Ben
Jonson himself ever did; and of this we have the best evidence in whole
plays almost re-written. Even in the single instance rare Ben gives of
Shakspeare's incorrectness, published many years after the latter's
death, the memory or hearing of the former either were at fault, or the
line had been "blotted."

Absolute perfection is, of course, not to be looked for; there is no
such thing in reference to human affairs, unless it be in constant and
unobstructed growth and development. This is exhibited in Shakspeare's
writing to a degree shown by no other writer. The shortcomings of
Shakspeare are most evident when he is compared with himself,--the
earlier with the later writer. But take his earliest work, so far as
can be ascertained, in its earliest form, and the literature of the age
cannot produce its equal.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

    "I knew there was but one way, for his nose was as sharp as a
    pen, and 'a babbled of green fields."--_Shakspeare._

    "I knew there was but one way, for his nose was as sharp as a
    pen on a table of green frieze."--_Shakspeare corrected._

Some of the alterations in the manuscript corrections in MR. COLLIER'S
old edition of Shakspeare's plays I agree with, but certainly not in this
one, since we lose much and gain nothing by it. Shakspeare, in drawing
a character such as Falstaff, loaded with every vice that flesh is heir
to, and yet making him a favourite with the audience, must have been most
anxious respecting his death, and therefore awakened our sympathy in
his favour. In ushering in the account of the death-bed scene, he makes
Bardolph say:

    "Would I were with him, wheresome'er he is, either in heaven or
    in hell."

This expression Burns the poet considered the highest mark of regard that
one man could pay to another, for in his poem on a departed friend, he
says:

    "With such as he, where'er he be,
    May I be saved, or damn'd."

Mrs. Quickly, in describing the scene, says:

    "He's in Arthur's (Abraham's) bosom, if ever man went to
    Arthur's bosom. 'A made a finer end, and went away, an it had
    been any christom child; for after I saw him fumble with the
    sheets, and play with flowers, and smile upon his finger's
    ends, I knew there was but one way; for his nose was as sharp
    as a pen, and 'a _babbled of green fields_."

Mrs. Quickly, after describing the outward signs of decay and second
childishness, tells us he _babbled_. Shakspeare, as the only means of
gaining our forgiveness, makes him die in repentance for his sins, and
seems to have had the Twenty-third Psalm in his mind, where David puts
his trust in God's grace, when amongst other passages it says: "He maketh
me lie down in _green pastures_," and further on, "Yea, though I walk
through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou
art with me." I have endeavoured to give you a reason why I prefer the
_old_ reading of the text: if any of your correspondents will give a
better for the _new_, I shall be glad to see it, as I am convinced the
more we examine into the works of our wonderful bard, the more we shall
be convinced of his superhuman genius; we are, therefore, all indebted
to MR. COLLIER for his searching investigations, as they set us in a
reflective mood.

J. B.

Your just remarks on Theobald's "'a babbled of green fields" recalls
to me a note which I find appended to the passage in the margin of my
Shakspeare,

    "'A babbled of green fields, _i.e._ singing snatches of the
    23rd Psalm:

    'In pastures green He feedeth me,' &c.
    'And though I walk e'en at death's door,' &c."

This note I jotted down in my schoolboy days, and thirty years'
experience at the beds of the dying only convinces me of its correctness.
Again and again have I heard the same sweet strains hymned from the lips
of the dying, and soothing with hope the sinking spirit, ay, even of
great and grievous sinners. Indeed, I have come to stamp it as a sure
mark of impending death, and have said with the dame, "I knew there
was but one way, for 'a babbled of green fields;" though I trust with
different doctrine than her's, viz. that religion is the business of none
but the dying, and thence, that to talk of religion is a sure sign of
approaching death.

When Falstaff "babbled of green fields," he was labouring under no
"calenture." His heart was far away amid the early fresh pure scenes of
childhood, and he was babbling forth snatches of hymns and holy songs,
learned on his mother's knee, and now called up, in his hour of need,
to cheer, as best they might, his parting spirit. Strange is it that
Theobald, when he suggested so happy an emendation, missed half its
beauty and its real bearing.

Throughout the whole passage it is evident that Falstaff was ejaculating
scraps of long forgotten hymns and Scripture texts, which were utterly
incomprehensible to those about him. "'A babbled of green fields,"--"he
cried out of sack,"--"and of women,"--"incarnate,"--"whore of
Babylon,"--all suggest holy ejaculations, perverted by the ignorance of
the godless bystanders.

In all Shakspeare there is hardly to be found a more touching scene, or
one more true to nature; {315} it is most graphic and characteristic.
The loneliness of the dying sinner, with none to stand by him but the
godless companions of his riot and debauchery; the eagerness of the
despairing man to catch at anything of the semblance of hope that he
could recall from the lessons of his childhood, "He shall feed me in a
green pasture," &c.--then--ere he could reach those assuring words, "Yea,
though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear
no evil, for Thou art with me, Thy rod and Thy staff comfort me," the
miserable consciousness that it is all too late, "So 'a cried out God,
God, God;"--then--the utter want of religious sympathy in the bystanders,
Nym, Quickly, Bardolph, Boy, in their misinterpretations, and perverse
commentaries on his ejaculations, just such as we might expect from
hearts gorged to the full with vice and sensuality;--then--the redeeming
touch of tenderness in the Dame, beaming through all her benighted
efforts to cheer, in her own way (awful to think on, the only way known
to her), the last hours of her dear old roysterer, "Now I, to comfort
him, bid him 'a should not think of God, I hoped there was no need to
trouble himself with any such thoughts yet;" and the undying fondness
with which she upholds his memory, and will not brook a word of ribaldry,
or what _she_ deems slander, against it, all evidencing that--

    "The worst of _sin_ had left her woman still."

Surely a scene more characteristic of all the parties in it, is not to be
found in Shakspeare.

NEMO.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Notes.

_Doings of the Calf's Head Club._--In an old newspaper called _The Weekly
Oracle_, of Feb. 1, 1735, is the following curious paragraph:

    "Thursday (Jan. 29) in the evening a disorder of a very
    particular nature happened in Suffolk Street; 'tis said that
    several young gentlemen of distinction having met at a house
    there, calling themselves the Calf's Head Club; and about seven
    o'clock a bonfire being lit up before the door, just when it
    was in its height, they brought a calf's head to the window
    dressed in a napkin-cap, and after some huzzas, threw it into
    the fire. The mob were entertained with strong beer, and for
    some time hallooed as well as to best; but taking a disgust at
    some healths which were proposed, grew so outrageous that they
    broke all the windows, forced themselves into the house, and
    would probably have pulled it down, had not the guards been
    sent to prevent further mischief. The damage is computed at
    some hundred pounds. The guards were posted all night in the
    street for the security of the neighbourhood."

E. G. BALLARD.

_Epitaph by Wordsworth._--There is a beautiful epitaph by Wordsworth in
Sprawley Church, Worcestershire, to the wife of G. C. Vernon, Esq., of
Hanbury. Wordsworth has made the following slight alterations to it, in
his published poems: I quote from the one-volume 8vo. edition of Moxon
(1845). The first two lines are not on the tablet. The words within
brackets are those which appear in the original epitaph:--

    "_By a blest husband guided, Mary came_
    _From nearest kindred_, Vernon _her new name_;
    She came, though meek of soul, in seemly pride
    Of happiness and hope, a youthful bride.
    O dread reverse! if aught _be_ so which proves
    That GOD will chasten whom he dearly loves,
    Faith bore her up through pains in mercy given,
    And troubles _that_ [which] were each a step to Heaven.
    Two babes were laid in earth before she died;
    A third now slumbers at the mother's side;
    Its sister-twin survives, whose smiles _afford_ [impart]
    A trembling solace to _her widow'd lord_ [her father's heart.]

      Reader! if to thy bosom cling the pain
    Of recent sorrow combated in vain;
    Or if thy cherish'd grief have fail'd to thwart
    Time, still intent on his insidious part,
    Lulling the mourner's best good thoughts asleep,
    Pilfering regrets we would, but cannot, keep;
    Bear with _him_ [those]--judge _him_ [those] gently who _makes_
        [make] known
    _His_ [their] bitter loss by _this memorial_ [monumental] stone;
    And pray that in _his_ [their] faithful breast the grace
    Of resignation find a hallow'd place."

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

_Tailor's "Cabbage."_--

    "The term _cabbage_, by which tailors designate the cribbed
    pieces of cloth, is said to be derived from an old word,
    'cablesh,' _i. e._ wind-fallen wood. And their 'hell,' where
    they store the cabbage, from 'helan,' to hide."

CLERICUS RUSTICUS.

_Misquotations._--1. Sallust's memorable definition of friendship, as put
into the mouth of Catiline (cap. 20.), is quoted in the "Translation of
Aristotle's Ethics," in Bohn's _Classical Library_ (p. 241. note _h_), as
the saying of Terence.

2. The _Critic_ of September 1st quotes the "Viximus insignes inter
utramque facem" of Propertius (lib. iv. 11. 46.) as from Martial.

3. In _Fraser's Magazine_ for October 1852, p. 461., we find "Quem
patente portâ," &c. quoted from Terence instead of Catullus, as it is
correctly in the number for May, 1853.

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

_The Ducking Stool._--In the Museum at Scarborough, one of these engines
is preserved. It is said that there are persons still living in the town,
who remember its services being employed when it stood upon the old pier.
It is a substantial arm-chair of oak; with an iron bar extending {316}
from elbow to elbow, just as the wooden one is placed in child's chair to
prevent the occupant from falling forward.

W. J. BERNHARD SMITH.

Temple.

_Watch-paper Inscription._--Akin to dial inscriptions are inscriptions on
watch-papers used in the days of our grandfathers, in the outer case of
the corpulent watch now a-days seldom seen. I send you the following one,
which I read many years since; but as I did not copy the lines, I cannot
vouch for their being strictly accurate:

      "Onward perpetually moving,
      These faithful hands are ever proving
        How quick the hours fly by;
      This monitory pulse-like beating,
      Seems constantly, methinks, repeating,
        Swift! swift! the moments fly.
    Reader, be ready--for perhaps before
    These hands have made one revolution more
        Life's spring is snapt--you die!"

F. JAMES.

       *       *       *       *       *




Queries.


BIRTHPLACE OF GEN. MONK.

In a clever biographical sketch by M. Guizot, originally published in a
French periodical (the _Revue Française_) under the title of "Monk, Etude
Historique," George Monk, first Duke of Albemarle, is said to have been
born on the 6th of December, 1608, at the manor-house of Potheridge, the
ancient inheritance of his family, in the county of Devon.

This Potheridge (otherwise Pen-the-ridge) is, it appears, a village
or hamlet situated "on the ascendant ridge of a small hill," in the
parish of Merton, about four miles south-west of Torrington. As M.
Guizot's statement, in so far as locality is concerned, seems open to
doubt at least, if not positive exception, I wish to elicit, and place
on record, through the medium of "N. & Q." if I can, some farther and
perhaps more decisive information on the subject. In opposition to M.
Guizot's authority (whence derived or whatever it might be), Lysons,
in his account of Devonshire in the _Magna Britannia_, positively lays
the _venue_ of Monk's birth in the parish of Lancros or Landcross, near
Bideford, confirmatorily alleging that his baptism took place there on
the 11th of December in the year above mentioned. In another account, a
notice of the Restoration by M. Riordan de Muscry, appended to Monteth's
_History of the Rebellion_, he is said to have been born in Middlesex,
an assertion to which (in the absence of all authority) little value
can, of course, be given. The slightest local investigation, including
a reference to the parochial registers of Landcross and Merton, would,
however, probably at once solve the difficulty. But for the known
fidelity of Lysons, and the probability of his possessing superior
information on the specific point at issue over that of M. Guizot, I
should be most reluctant to impeach the accuracy of any statement of
fact, however trifling or minute, emanating from that distinguished
writer. Few indeed there are, even amongst our own historians, whose
claims on our faith, arising from close and accurate research, intimate
knowledge, clear perception, and thorough comprehension of the events
of that most eventful period of English history, commencing with the
Revolution of 1640, can (as manifested in their published works at
least) vie with those of M. Guizot. With some few of the opinions,
interpretations, constructions, and comments passed or placed by M.
Guizot on the life and actions of Monk in this same "Etude Historique,"
I shall, perhaps (with all deference), be tempted to deal on some future
occasion. An able translation of the work, from the pen of the present
Lord Wharncliffe, appeared in 1838, the year immediately succeeding its
first publication. The prefatory observations and valuable notes there
introduced richly illustrate the text of M. Guizot, whose labours, in
this instance, are certainly not discreditably reflected through the
medium of his English editor. With one expression of Lord Wharncliffe's,
however (in the note to which this paper chiefly refers), I take leave
to differ, wherein he hints that the question of Monk's birthplace can
have little interest beyond the limits of the county of Devon, clearly a
palpable error.

F. KYFFIN LENTHALL.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries.

_Harmony of the Four Gospels._--Can any of your correspondents furnish me
with the date of the earliest Harmony, or the titles of any early ones?
Any information on the subject will much oblige

Z.4.

_The Noel Family._-Will any of your readers be kind enough to give me
information on the following point? About the commencement of the last
century, a Rev. Wm. Noel lived at Ridlington, county of Rutland: he was
rector of that parish about the year 1745. What relation was he to the
Earl of Gainsborough then living? Was it not one of the daughters of this
clergyman who married a Capt. Furye?

TEECEE.

_Council of Trent._--References are requested to any worlds illustrative
of the extent of knowledge attainable by the Romish clergy at the
sittings of this council, in (1.) ecclesiastical antiquities, (2.)
historical traditions, (3.) biblical hermeneutics.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Birmingham.

{317}

_Roman Catholic Patriarchs._--Has any bishop in the Western Church held
the title of patriarch besides the Patriarch of Venice? And what peculiar
authority or privileges has he?

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

_The "Temple Lands" in Scotland._--I am anxious to learn some particulars
of these lands. I recollect of reading, some time ago, that the
superiorities of them had been acquired by John B. Gracie, Esq., W. S.
Edinburgh; but whether by purchase or otherwise, I did not ascertain. Mr.
Gracie died some four or five years ago. Perhaps some correspondent will
favour me with some information on the subject. In the Justice Street
of Aberdeen, there is a tenement of houses called Mauchlan or Mauchline
Tower Court, which is said to have belonged to the order. In the charters
of this property, themselves very ancient, reference is made to another,
of about the earliest date at which the order began to acquire property
in Scotland.

ABREDONENSIS.

_Cottons of Fowey._--A family of "Cotton" was settled at Fowey, in
Cornwall, in the seventeenth century. The first name of which I have any
notice is that of Abraham Cotton, who married at Fowey in 1597. They
bore for their arms, Sable, a chevron between three cotton-hanks, Or a
crescent for difference: crest, a Cornish chough holding in the beak
a cotton-hank proper. William Cotton, mayor of Plymouth in 1671, was
probably one of this family. The name is not Cornish; and these Cottons
had without doubt migrated at no distant period from some other part of
the kingdom. Any information relating to the family or its antecedents
will be very gratefully received by

R. W. C.

_Draught or Draft of Air._--Will some of your contributors inform a
reader what term or word may be correctly used to signify the phrase
"current of air" up the flue of a chimney, or through a room, &c.? The
word _draught_ or _draft_ is generally or universally used; but that
signification is not to be found attached to the word _draught_ or
_draft_ in any dictionary accessible to the inquirer. The word is used by
many English scientific writers, and was undoubtedly used by Dr. Franklin
to signify a current of air in the flue of a chimney (see also Ure's
_Dict._). Yet the word cannot be found in Johnson or Ogilvie's _Imp.
Dict._ with this signification. The word "tirage" is also used by French
writers with the above signification; and though in French dictionaries
its meaning is nearly the same, and nearly as extended as the English
word _draught_ or _draft_, yet it cannot be found in the _Dict. de
l'Acad._ to signify as above.

New York.

_Admiral Sir Thomas Tyddeman_ commanded the squadron sent during the
war with the Dutch in the reign of Charles II. to assist in the capture
of certain richly laden merchant vessels which had put into Bremen, but
(owing to the treachery of the Danish governor, who instead of acting in
concert with the English, as had been agreed, opened fire upon them from
the town) was unable to effect his purpose.

After the admiral's return to England, a question was raised as to his
conduct during the engagement; and some persons went so far as to accuse
him of cowardice; but the Duke of York, who was then in command of the
fleet, entirely freed him from such charges, and declared that he had
acted with the greatest discretion and bravery in the whole affair.

He died soon after this, in 1668, according to Pepys's account, of a
broken heart occasioned by the scandal that had been circulated about
him, and the slight he felt he was suffering from the Parliament.
Perhaps some of your readers can inform me where I may meet with farther
particulars relating to Admiral Tyddeman. I am particularly desirous to
gain information as to his family and his descendants; also to learn upon
what occasion he was created a baronet or knight.

CAPTAIN.

_Pedigree Indices._--Is there any published table of kin to Sir Thomas
White, the founder of St. John's College, Oxford, or of William of
Wykeham, after the plan of _Stemmata Chicheliana_?

Is there any Index to the Welsh and Irish pedigrees in the British
Museum? Sims' valuable book is confined to England.

Are there Indices to the pedigrees in the Lambeth Library, or the
Bodleian Library at Oxford?

The proper mode of making a search in the Universities of Oxford and
Cambridge wanted?

Y. S. M.

_Apparition of the White Lady._--I observe in two works lately published,
an allusion made to an apparition of the "White Lady," as announcing the
death of a prince; in the one case of the throne of Brandenburgh[3], the
other that of France.[4] Can any of your readers point out the origin of
this popular tradition?

C. M. W.

[Footnote 3: In Michaud's _Biographie_.]

[Footnote 4: _Louis XVII._, by A. De Beauchesne.]

_Rundlestone._--Can any information be given of the origin of the term
"Rundlestone," as applied to a rock off the Land's End; and also to a
remarkable stone near Hessory Tor? (Vide Mr. Bray's Journal, Sept. 1802,
in Mrs. Bray's work on the Tamar and Tavy: and see also in the Ordnance
Maps.)

J. S. R.

Garrison Library, Malta.

{318}

_Tottenham._--What is the derivation of Tottenham Park, Wilts, and of
Tottenham Court Road? The ancestor of the Irish family of that name was
from Cambridgeshire.

Y. S. M.

_Duval Family._--Is or was there a French family of the name of Duval,
gentilhommes; and if so, can any relationship be traced between such
family and the "Walls of Coolnamuck," an ancient Anglo-Norman family of
the south of Ireland, who are considered to have been originally named
"Duval?"

H.

_Noses of the Descendants of John of Gaunt_ (Vol. vii., p. 96.).--What
peculiarity have they? I am one, and I know many others; but I am at _a
loss to know_ the meaning of E. D.'s remark.

Y. S. M.

_General Wall._--Can any of your Irish correspondents give me any
information respecting the parentage and descent of General Richard Wall,
who was Prime Minister at the Court of Spain in the year 1750 or 1753
(vide Lord Mahon); also whether the General belonged to that branch of
the Walls of Coolnamuck, whose property fell into the hands of certain
English persons named Ruddall, in whose family some Irish property still
remains?

Did the general have any sisters? Is there any monograph life of the
general?

H.

_John Daniel and Sir Ambrose Nicholas Salter._--Can any of the readers of
"N. & Q." give any information respecting one John Danyel or Daniel, of
Clement's Inn, who translated from the Spanish, _Jehovah, A free Pardon
with many Graces therein contained, granted to all Christians by our most
Holy and Reuerent Father God Almightie, the principal High Priest and
Bishoppe in Heaven and Earth, 1576_; and _An excellent Comfort to all
Christians against all kinde of Calamities, 1576_?

Also any information respecting Sir Ambrose Nicholas Salter, son of John
Nicholas of Redingworth, in Huntingdonshire, to whom the first tract is
dedicated; or of his mayoralty of the city of London, 1575-6.

B. B. W.

_Edward Bysshe._--I shall feel particularly obliged to any of your
correspondents who will favour me with a biographical notice of Edward
Bysshe, author of _The Art of English Poetry, The British Parnassus_,
&c., especially the dates and places of his birth and death.

CIVIS.

_President Bradshaw and John Milton._--In a pamphlet by T. W. Barlow,
Esq., of the Honorable Society of Gray's Inn, entitled _Cheshire, its
Historical and Literary Associations_, published in 1852, it is stated
that among the memorials of friends which President Bradshaw's will
contains, is a bequest of _ten pounds_ to his _kinsman, John Milton_,
which cannot be said to be an insignificant legacy two centuries ago.

Can any of your numerous correspondents afford a clue to the family
connexion between these distinguished individuals?

T. P. L.

Manchester.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries with Answers.

_Ket the Tanner._--Can you or any of your correspondents give me any
information about "Ket the Tanner;" or refer me to any book or books
containing a history or biography of that remarkable person? As I want
the information for a historical purpose, I hope you will give me as
lengthy an account as possible.

W. J. LINTON.

Brantwood, Coniston, Lancashire.

[A long account of Ket, and his insurrection, is given in Blomefield's
_Norfolk_, vol. iii. pp. 222-260., edit. 1806. Incidental notices
of him will be also found in Alexander Nevyllus' _Norfolke Furies
and their Folye, under Ket, their accursed Captaine_, 4to., 1623;
Strype's _Ecclesiastical Memorials_, vol. i.; Heylin's _History of the
Reformation_; Stow's _Chronicle_; Godwin's _Annales of England_; and
Sharon Turner's _Modern History of England_, under Edward VI. A Fragment
of the Requests and Demands of Ket and his Accomplices is preserved in
the Harleian MS. 304. art. 44.]

"_Namby-pamby._"--What is the derivation of namby-pamby?

Clericus Rusticus.

[Sir John Stoddart, in his article "Grammar" (_Ency. Metropolitana_,
vol.i. p. 118.), remarks, that the word "_Namby-pamby_ seems to be of
modern fabrication, and is particularly intended to describe that style
of poetry which affects the infantine simplicity of the nursery. It would
perhaps be difficult to trace any part of it to a significant origin."]

       *       *       *       *       *




Replies.


EDITIONS OF BOOKS OF COMMON PRAYER.

(Vol. vii., pp. 18. 91. 321.)

As you have printed various lists of Prayer-Books, I send you the
following of such books as are in my own possession. Other persons may,
perhaps, send lists of copies in private libraries:

    1549. Book of Common Prayer. Whitchurch. June. Folio.
    1549. May. Folio. (Wants title and last leaf.)
    1549. June. Folio. (Last leaf wanting.)
    1552. Whitchurch. Folio.
    1552. Grafton. Folio. (Title wanting)
    1552. Whitchurch. 4to. The first edition to which the prose
            Psalter and the Godly Prayers were appended.
    1567. 4to. (No title.)
    1571. 24mo.

    {319}

    1580. Folio.
    1574. 4to.
    1578. Folio.
    1551. Ordinatio Ecclesiæ seu Ministerii, &c. 4to. A Latin
            translation of the Book of 1549.
    1548. Ordo Distributionis Sacramenti, &c. 12mo. A Latin
            translation of the Order of Communion.
    1571. Liber Precum Publicarum, &c. Londini, 24mo.
    1574.                          8vo.
    1596.                          8vo.
    1604. Book of Common Prayer. Folio. (Royal Arms on sides.)
            The first edit. of the reign of James I.
    1605. Folio.
    1605. Folio.
    1614. 4to.
    1615. Folio.
    1618. 4to.
    1616. 12mo., bound in silver by the nuns of Little Gidding.
    1621. 4to. In Welsh.
    1622. Folio.
          Liturgia Inglesia, 4to., large paper. A Spanish translation,
            made at the cost of Archbishop Williams.
          4to. The same.
    1616. La Liturgie Angloise, 4to., large paper. This translation
            was also made at the charge of Williams.
          4to. The same.
    1625. Common Prayer. Folio. First edition of the reign of
            Charles I. This copy was used by Secretary Nicholas,
            in his family, during the period of the Commonwealth.
            A clause in his own hand is inserted in the Prayer for
            the King.
    1628. 12mo.
    1631. Folio.
    1633. Folio.
    1633. Edinburgh. 12mo. (Young.)
    1633. 12mo. The same.
    1634. 4to.
    1636. Folio, large paper. (Royal Arms on sides.)
    1636. Folio.
    1637. 4to.
    1637. 12mo.
    1639. 4to.
    1640. 24mo.
    1657. Edinburgh. Folio. (Young.)
    1713. 8vo., large paper. (Watson's reprint of the preceding.)
    1660. Folio.
    1660. Folio. (A different edition.)
    1660. 4to.
    1690. 12mo.
    1661. Folio, large paper, with the Form at the Healing.
    1662. Folio, large paper, with the Form at the Healing.
    1662. Folio, large paper.
    1662. Folio.
    1662. Folio.
    1662. Folio. Second edition of this year.
    1662. Cambridge. 8vo.
    1662. Cambridge. 8vo. Different edition.
    1669. Folio.
    1686. Folio.
    1687. Folio, large paper.
    1692. 8vo.
    1694. Folio.
    1699. 8vo.
    1700. 8vo.
    1703. Folio, with the Form at the Healing.
    1708. 8vo., with the Form at the Healing.
    1769. 12mo., with the Form at the Healing.
    1715. Folio, with the Form at the Healing.

I have excluded from my list all those thin editions of the Prayer Book,
which were usually bound up with Bibles, except in three instances. The
exceptions are these:--The folio, 1578; Young's edition, 1633; and that
of 1715. Generally these thin books, which have only references to the
Epistles and Gospels, are of no value whatever. The exceptions in this
list, however, are important books. The book of 1578 was prepared by the
Puritans, and is so altered that the word _priest_ does not occur in a
single rubric. Young's book of 1633 is the first Prayer Book printed in
Scotland; and the edition of 1715 is remarkable for "The Healing," though
George I. never attempted to touch for the king's evil.

Should you deem this list worth printing, I will send another of
_occasional forms_, now in my possession, from the reign of Elizabeth to
the accession of the House of Hanover. It may lead others to do the same,
and thus bring to light some forms not generally known. The Prayer Books
and occasional forms in our public libraries are known to most persons;
but it is important to ascertain the existence of others in private
collections.

THOMAS LATHBURY.

Bristol.

I possess a copy of the Prayer Book of an edition I do not see mentioned
in any of the lists published in "N. & Q." It is small octavo,
_imprinted_ by Bonham, Norton, and John Bill, 1627.

K. L.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE CRESCENT.

(Vol. viii., p. 196.)

Your correspondent W. ROBSON, in asking to have pointed out "the period
at which the crescent became the standard of Mahometanism," appears
to assume, what is more than doubtful, that it _has been_, and still
_is_ so. For although "modern poets and even historians have named it
as the antagonistic standard to the cross," the crescent cannot be
considered as "_the_ standard" of Mahometanism--emphatically, much less
exclusively--except in a poetical and figurative sense. That it is
_one_ among several standards, I admit; it is used by {320} the Turks
as an ornament, and probably as a symbol, of their dominion, or in
connexion with their religion. This may have originated in the following
fact:--Mahomet, at the introduction of his religion, said to his
followers, who were ignorant of astronomy, "When you see the new moon,
begin the fast; when you see the moon, celebrate the Bairam." And at this
day, although the precise time of the lunar changes may be ascertained
from their ephemerides, yet they never begin either the Ramazan, or
the Bairam, till some have testified that they have seen the new moon.
(Cantemir's _History of the Othman Empire_, pref. pp. iv, v.) But the
ancient Israelites had precisely the same custom in commencing _their_
"new moons and appointed feasts." (See _Calmet_, art. "Month.") That
which may properly be called the standard of the Turks, is the _Sanjak
Cherif_, or Standard of the Prophet. It is of green silk[5], preserved in
the treasury with the utmost care, and never brought out of the seraglio
but to be carried to the army. This banner is supposed by the Turks to
ensure victory, and is the sacred signal to which they rally. (De Tott's
_Memoirs_, vol. ii. pp. 2, 3.)

The military ensigns which the grand seignior bestows on the governors of
provinces and other great men, include the following: 1. The _sanjak_,
or standard, only distinguished from that of Mahomet by the colour, one
being red and the other green. 2. The _tug_, or standard consisting
of one, two, or three horse-tails, according to the dignity of the
office borne by him who receives it. Pachas of the highest rank are
distinguished by three tails, and the title _beglerbeg_, or prince of
princes. Those next in rank are the pachas of two tails, and the beys
are honoured but with one. These tails are not _worn_ by the pachas,
but fastened at the end of a lance, having a gilt handle, and carried
before the pacha, or fixed at the side of his tent. 3. The _alem_ is a
large broad standard, which instead of a spear-head has a silver plate in
the middle, bored in the shape of a _crescent or half-moon_. (Cantemir,
_Hist. Oth. Emp._, p. 10.)

The sultan's barge, with canopy of purple silk, supported throne-like
by four gilt pillars, is adorned with _three gilt candlesticks_; and
only the capudan pacha, when going to sea, is allowed to have similar
ornaments, as he is then considered as _deriyá padishahi_, emperor of the
sea. Even the vizier is only permitted to display a canopy of green silk
on ivory pillars, but without candlesticks. (_Ib._, p. 424.)

Thus it appears that the crescent holds but a subordinate position
among the ensigns at present in use among the Turks. As to its history,
I have found no trace of it in connexion with that of the Crusades.
Tasso, in _La Gerusalemme Liberata_, mentions "the spread standards" of
the soldan's army "waving to the wind" ("Sparse al vento ondeggiando
ir le bandiere," canto xx. st. 28.), but he makes no allusion to _the
crescent_. I have not access to Michaud's _Histoire des Croisades_, and
shall be glad if your correspondent will quote the passage to which he
has referred. Does Michaud speak of it as existing _at that time_? This
does not clearly appear from the reference. There were several sultans
named Mahomet who reigned in or near the age of the Crusades, two of the
Seljak dynasty; the first the conqueror of Bagdad, the second cotemporary
with Baldwin III., king of Jerusalem. In the Carizmian dynasty, Mahomet
I. was cotemporary with Godfrey, Baldwin I., and Baldwin II.; and
Mahomet II. commenced his reign about A.D. 1206. But the conqueror of
Constantinople, Mahomet II., was of the Othman dynasty, and lived some
centuries later, the fall of that city having taken place A.D. 1453. _To
which_ of these eras does Michaud ascribe the use of _the crescent_ for
the first time?

After all, perhaps, the Turkish crescent, like the modern crown of
Western Europe, may be but a variation of the horn, the ancient symbol of
authority, so often alluded to in the Old Testament. The _two_ cusps or
horns of the crescent, and the circle of diverging _rays_ in the diadem,
suggest that the variation is simply one of number; and the derivation is
strongly corroborated by etymology. The Hebrew word ‎ ‏קרן‎‏ (_keren_) is
connected with, and possibly the original source of, our two words _horn_
and _crown_. Its dual (_karnaim_) signifies _horns_ or _rays_, as in
Habak. iii. 4.

A fact mentioned by D'Herbelot may have some connexion with the Turkish
crescent. When the celebrated warrior, Tamugin, whose conquests preceded
those of the Othman dynasty, assumed in a general assembly of the
Moguls and Tartars the title of _Ghenghis Khan_, or king of kings, "Il
y ordonna qu'une cornette blanche seroit dorénavant l'étendart général
de ses troupes" (_Bibliothèque Orientale_, p. 379.). Thus did the Mogul
conqueror (to use the words of the Psalmist) "lift up the horn on
high." (Psalm lxxv. 5.) About half a century after the death of Ghengis
Khan, Aladin, Sultan of Iconium, conferred on Othman, who afterwards
founded the Turkish empire, the _tabl alem_--the drum, standards, and
other ornaments of a general. (Cantemir, _Hist. Oth. Emp._, p. 10.) The
explanation of the _alem_ by the historian in his annotations, I have
already quoted. This is the only allusion to the crescent as an ensign
that I have met with in Cantemir.

{321}

The painters of Christendom (no high authorities in this matter) often
represent the crescent as a part of Turkish costume, worn in front
of the turban. But in the portraits of the Turkish emperors, "taken
from originals in the grand seignior's palace," there appears no such
ornament. (See the plates in Cantemir's _History_.) Many of them are
represented as wearing the _sorgus_, a crest of feathers adorned with
precious stones. Like the horn, it is an emblem of authority. Many of
them have two fastened to the turban.

Your correspondent states that "the crescent is common upon the reverses
of coins of the Eastern empire long before the Turkish conquest." I
think this highly probable, but would be glad to see the authorities for
the fact. I cannot admit, however, that the crescent was in any degree
"peculiar to Sclave nations" for, first, the Sclave nations reached
no farther south than Moravia, Bohemia, and their vicinity, they did
not occupy the seat of the Eastern empire, which was partly Greek and
partly Roman. Secondly, though I have no work on numismatics to consult,
I have casually met with instances in which the heavenly bodies are
represented on Persian, Phœnician, and Roman coins. As instances, in
Calmet's _Dictionary_, art. "Moloch," is represented a Persian coin with
the figures of a star and _crescent_; in the Pictorial Bible, 2 Chron.
xv. 16., a Phœnician coin bearing a _crescent_; and in Matt. xx. 1.,
on a Roman coin of Augustus, there is the figure of a star. The Turks,
however, stamp nothing on their coins but the emperor's name and the date
of coinage.

Again, in European heraldry, Frank, German, Gothic, and not Sclave, the
_crescent_ appears; in "common charges," for example, as one of the
emblems of power, glory, &c. and among "differences," to distinguish a
second son.

Should the above facts tend to throw any light on the subject of your
correspondent's inquiry, I shall be gratified; and if any of my views can
be shown to be erroneous, it will afford me equal pleasure to correct
them.

J. W. THOMAS.

Dewsbury.

[Footnote 5: So says De Tott; Cantemir says it is _red_. But this
discrepancy in the authorities is easily accounted for, since the
_Sanjak Cherif_ is so sacred that it must be looked upon by none but
the _Muslimans_, the true believers. If seen by the eyes of _giaours_
(unbelievers), it would be profaned. (De Tott, _Memoirs_, p. 3.)]

       *       *       *       *       *


SEALS OF THE BOROUGH OF GREAT YARMOUTH.

(Vol. viii., p. 269.)

I fear that the result of my researches will be but of little service;
but your Querist is heartily welcome to the mite I offer.

The second seal appears to have been the seal of assay; probably used for
certifying the correctness of the king's beam, or for sealing documents
authorising exports, of which there were formerly many and various from
this port. Yarmouth was held by the kings until 9 John, when a charter
was granted to his burgesses, inhabitants of Gernemue, that they should
henceforth hold the town in "fee-farm," paying yearly the sum of 55_l._
in lieu of all rents, tolls, &c. Probably on this occasion a seal of
arms was granted. About the year 1306 a dispute fell out between Great
Yarmouth and the men of Little Yarmouth and Gorleston adjoining, the
latter insisting on the right to load and unload fish in their harbours;
but the former prevailed as being free burgh, which the others were not.
In 1332 a charter was granted (6 Ed. III.) for adjusting these disputes,
wherein it was directed--

    "That ships laden with wool, leather, and skins upon which
    the great custom is due, shall clear out from that port where
    our beam and the seal called _coket_ remain, and nowhere else
    (ubi thronus noster et sigillum nostrum, quod dicitur _coket_,
    existunt, et non alibi carcentur)."

What _coket_ is, I am unable to say: but the king's beam for weighing
merchandise, called _thronus_ or _tronus_, stood usually in the most
public place of the town or port. The legend on this seal appears to be
old French, and is evidently the "seal of assay of Great Yarmouth."

The third seal has probably belonged to Little Yarmouth. The arms
of Great Yarmouth were "azure three herrings in pale argent." It is
not unlikely that during disputes between the two ports the Little
Yarmouthites might assume a seal of arms; but as such thing were more
carefully looked after then than in these degenerate days, they would
not venture on the _three herrings_, but content themselves with one;
and they might desire to dignify their town as "New" instead of "Little"
Yarmouth.

With regard to the first seal, I should judge from its oval shape, the
cross, and legend, that it is ecclesiastic, and has no connexion with
Yarmouth.

BROCTUNA.

Bury, Lancashire.

       *       *       *       *       *


MOON SUPERSTITIONS.

(Vol. viii., pp. 79. 145.)

Notwithstanding the authority upon which MR. INGLEBY founds the
assertion, that there is not the "slightest observable dependence"
between the moon and the weather, the dictum is open to something more
than doubt. That the popular belief of a full moon bringing fine weather
is not strictly correct, is undoubted; and the majority of the popular
ideas entertained on the influence of the moon on the weather are equally
fallacious; but that the moon exerts no influence whatever on the changes
of the weather, is a statement involving grave errors.

The action of the moon on meteorological processes is a highly complex
problem; but the principal {322} conclusions to which scientific
observations tend, on this matter, may be pointed out without perhaps
encroaching too much on the space of "N. & Q."

Luke Howard, of Ackworth, several years ago, concluded, from a series of
elaborate observations, extending over many years, that the moon exerted
a distinct influence on atmospheric pressure: and Col. Sabine has more
recently shown, from observations made at the British Magnetical and
Meteorological Observatory at St. Helena since 1842--

    "That the attraction of the moon causes the mercury in the
    barometer to stand, on the average, .004 of an English inch
    higher when the moon is on the meridian above or below
    the pole, than when she is six hours distant from the
    meridian."--_Cosmos_, vol. i. note 381, (author. trans.);
    _Phil. Trans._, 1847, art. v.

Luke Howard farther gives cogent reasons, from his tabulated
observations, for the conclusion that the moon has an appreciable effect
upon the weather, exerted through the influence of its attraction on
the course and direction of the winds, upon which it acts as a marked
disturbing cause; and through them it affects the local distribution of
temperature, and the density of the atmosphere. There is no constant
agreement between the _phases_ of the moon and certain states of the
weather; but an apparent connexion is not unfrequently observed, due
to the prevalence of certain winds, which would satisfactorily account
for the origin and persistence of the popular belief: for, "it is the
peculiar and perpetual error of the human understanding to be more moved
and excited by affirmatives than negatives" (_Nov. Org._, Aph. 46.). For
example, in 1807, "not a twentieth part of the rain of the year fell in
that quarter of the whole space, which occurred under the influence of
the moon at full" (_Lectures on Meteorology_, by L. Howard, 1837, p.
81.). In 1808, however, this phase lost this character completely.

A more marked relation is found between the state of the weather and the
_declination_ of the moon: for--

    "It would appear, that while the moon is far south of the
    equator, there falls but a moderate quantity of rain with us;
    that while she is crossing the equator towards these latitudes,
    our rain increases; that the greatest depth of rain falls, with
    us, in the week in which she is in the full north declination,
    or most nearly vertical to these latitudes; and that during her
    return over the equator to the south, the rain is reduced to
    its minimum quantity. _And this distribution obtains in very
    nearly the same proportions both in an extremely dry and in an
    extremely wet season._"--_Climate of London_, by L. Howard,
    vol. ii. p. 251., 1820.

Still more recently, Luke Howard has summed up the labours of his life on
this subject, and he writes:

    "We have, I think, evidence of a great _tidal wave_, or swell
    in the atmosphere, caused by the moon's attraction, preceding
    her in her approach to us, and following slowly as she departs
    from these latitudes. Were the atmosphere a calm fluid ocean
    of air of uniform temperature, this tide would be manifested
    with as great regularity as those of the ocean of waters. But
    the currents uniformly kept up by the sun's varying influence
    effectually prevent this, and so complicate the problem.

    "There is also manifest in the lunar influence a _gradation
    of effects_, which is here shown, as it is found to operate
    _through a cycle of eighteen years_. In these the mean weight
    of our atmosphere increases through the forepart of the period;
    and having kept for a year at the maximum it has attained,
    decreases again through the remaining years to a minimum; about
    which there seems to be a fluctuation, before the mean begins
    to rise again."--"On a Cycle of Eighteen Years in the Height
    of the Barometer" (_Papers on Meteorology_, Part II.; _Phil.
    Trans._, 1841, Part II.).

It is satisfactory to all interested in this matter to know that "the
incontestable action of our satellite on atmospheric pressure, aqueous
precipitations, and the dispersion of clouds, will be treated in the
latter and purely telluric portion of the _Cosmos_" (vol. iii. p. 368.,
and note 596, where an interesting illustration is given of the effects
of the radiation of heat from the moon in the upper strata of our
atmosphere).

JNO. N. RADCLIFFE.

Dewsbury.

Not being quite satisfied with MR. INGLEBY'S answer to W. W.'s Query,
I beg to refer inquirers to the _Nautical Magazine_ for July, 1850,
and three subsequent months, in which will be found a translation by
Commander L. G. Heath, R.N., of a paper published by M. Arago in the
_Annuaire du Bureau des Longitudes_ for the year 1833, entitled "Does the
Moon exercise any appreciable Influence on our Atmosphere?" This treatise
enters fully into the subject, and gives the results of several courses
of experiments extending over many years; which go to prove that in
Germany, at all events, there is more rain during the waxing than during
the waning moon. Several popular errors are shown to have arisen in the
belief that certain appearances in the moon, really the _effect_ of
peculiar states of the atmosphere, were the _cause_ of such atmospheric
peculiarities; but we are allowed some ground for supposing that this
"vulgar error" may have some foundation in "vulgar truth."

G. WILLIAM SKYRING.

       *       *       *       *       *


LATIN RIDDLE.

(Vol. viii., p. 243.)

The enigma of Aulus Gellius (_Noctes Atticæ_, lib. xii. cap. vi.), though
transmitted to us in a corrupt form, is solved at once by the story
mentioned by Livy (lib. i. cap. lv.). When Tarquinius {323} Superbus was
about to build the Temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, it was found necessary
to "exaugurate" or dispossess the other deities whose shrines had
previously occupied the ground. All readily gave way to Father Jupiter
with the exception of _Terminus_; and the point of the riddle lies in the
analogy between "_Semel_ minus," "_Bis_ minus," and "_Ter_ minus."

I extract a note from the copy of Aulus Gellius before me:

    Barthius (_Adv._, lib. xvi. cap. xxii.) hos versus ita legebat:

    'Semel minus? Non. Bisminus? Non. Sat scio.
    An utrumque? Verum; ut quondam audivi dicier,
    Jovi ipsi regi noluit concedere.'

    "Ita et trimetri sua sibi constant lege, et acumen repetitis
    interrogatiunculis. Alioquin frigidum responsum. Potest tamen
    ita intelligi, ut semel, bis, imo ter Jove minus sit, et
    noluerit tamen Jovi cedere."--Page 560. N.: Lugd. Batav., 1706,
    4to.

Lactantius, "the Christian Cicero," thus tells the story:

    "Nam cum Tarquinius Capitolium facere vellet, eoque in loco
    multorum deorum sacella essent: consuluit eos per augurium;
    utrum Jovi cederent, et cedentibus cæteris, solus Terminus
    mansit. Unde illum Poeta 'Capitoli immobile Saxum' vocat
    (Virg., _Æn._ ix. 441.). Facto itaque Capitolio, supra ipsum
    Terminum foramen est in tecto relictum: ut quia non cesserat,
    libero cœlo frueretur."--_De Falsa Relig._, lib. i. cap. xx.
    _ad fin._

Livy, in a subsequent book (v. 45.), Dionysius of Halicarnassus (_Antiqu.
Rom._, lib. iii. cap. lxix.) and Florus assert that _Juventas_ also
refused to move; and St. Augustine tells the same story of _Mars_. I may
as well quote his words:

    "Cum Rex Tarquinius Capitolium fabricare vellet, eumque locum
    qui ei dignior aptiorque videbatur, ab Diis aliis cerneret
    præoccupatum, non audens aliquid contra eorum facere arbitrium,
    et credens eos tanto numini suoque principi voluntate
    cessuros; quia multi erant illic ubi Capitolium constitutum
    est, per augurium quæsivit, utrum concedere locum vellent
    Jovi: atque ipsi inde cedere omnes voluerunt, præter illos,
    quos commemoravi, Martem, Terminum, Juventatem: atque ideo
    Capitolium ita constitutum est, ut etiam iste tres intus
    essent tam obscuris signis, ut hoc vix homines doctissimi
    scirent."--_De Civit. Dei_, lib. iv. cap. xxiii. 3.

Nor must I omit the following from Ovid:

    "Quid, nova quum fierent Capitolia? Nempe Deorum
      Cuncta Jovi cessit turba, locumque dedit,
    Terminus ut memorant veteres, inventus in æde,
      Restitit, et magno cum Jove templa tenet.
    Nunc quoque, se supra ne quid nisi sidera cernat,
      Exiguum templi tecta foramen habent."

                          _Fast._, lib. ii. 667., &c.

Much more information may be found in Smith's _Dictionary of Greek and
Roman Biography_, &c., sub voc. TERMINUS. Servius, _ad Aen._ ix. 448.
Politiani, _Miscell._ c. 36. _Histoire Romaine_, par Catrou et Rouille,
vol. i. p. 343. &c., N.: à Paris, 1725, 4to. Grævii, _Thesaur. Antiqu.
Rom._, vol. ix. 218. N., and vol. x. 783. Traject. ad Rhen., 1699, fol.
Plutarch, in _Vit. Numæ_.

ROBERT GIBBINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *


"HURRAH!"

(Vol. viii., p. 20. &c.)

In two previous Numbers (Vol. vi., p. 54.; Vol. vii., p. 594.) Queries
have been inserted as to the derivation of the exclamations _Hurrah!_ and
_Hip, hip, hurrah!_ These have elicited much learned remark (Vol. vii.,
p. 633.; Vol. viii., pp. 20. 277.), but still I think the real originals
have not yet been reached by your correspondents.

As to _hip, hip!_ I fear it must remain questionable, whether it be not a
mere fanciful conjecture to resolve it into the initials of the war-cry
of the Crusaders, "Hierosolyma est perdita!" The authorities, however,
seem to establish that it should be written "hep" instead of _hip_. I
would only remark, _en passant_, that there is an error in the passage
cited by MR. BRENT (Vol. viii., p. 88.) in opposition to this mediæval
solution, which entirely destroys the authority of the quotation. He
refers to a note on the ballad of "Old Sir Simon the King," in which, on
the couplet--

    "Hang up all the poor _hep_ drinkers,
    Cries Old Sir Sim, the king of skinkers."

the author says that "_hep_ was a term of derision applied to those who
drank a weak infusion of the hep (or _hip_) berry or sloe: and that the
exclamation 'hip, hip, hurrah!' is merely a corruption of 'hip, hip,
away!'" But, unfortunately for this theory, the hip is not the sloe, as
the annotator seems to suppose; nor is it capable of being used in the
preparation of any infusion that could be substituted for wine, or drunk
"with all the honours." It is merely the hard and tasteless _buckey_
of the wild dog-rose, to the flower of which Chaucer likens the gentle
knight Sir Thopas:

    "As swete as is the bramble flour,
    That beareth, the red _hepe_."

This demurrer, therefore, does not affect the validity of the claim
which has been set up in favour of an oriental origin for this convivial
_refrain_.

As to _hurrah!_ if I be correct in my idea of its parentage, there
are few words still in use which can boast such a remote and widely
extended prevalence. It is one of those interjections in which sound so
echoes sense, that men seem to have adopted it almost instinctively. In
India and Ceylon, the Mahouts and attendants of the baggage-elephants
cheer them on by perpetual repetitions of _ur-ré, ur-ré!_ The Arabs and
camel-drivers {324} in Turkey, Palestine, and Egypt encourage their
animals to speed by shouting _ar-ré, ar-ré!_ The Moors seem to have
carried the custom with them into Spain, where the mules and horses are
still driven with cries of _arré_ (whence the muleteers derive their
Spanish appellation of _arrieros_). In France, the sportsman excites the
hound by shouts of _hare, hare!_ and the waggoner turns his horses by
his voice, and the use of the word _hurhaut!_ In Germany, according to
Johnson (_in verbo_ HURRY), "_Hurs_ was a word used by the old Germans
in urging their horses to speed." And to the present day, the herdsmen
in Ireland, and parts of Scotland, drive their cattle with shouts of
_hurrish, hurrish!_ In the latter country, in fact, to _hurry_, or to
_harry_, is the popular term descriptive of the predatory habits of the
border reivers in plundering and "driving the cattle" of the lowlanders.

The sound is so expressive of excitement and energy, that it seems to
have been adopted in all nations as a stimulant in times of commotion;
and eventually as a war-cry by the Russians, the English, and almost
every people of Europe. Sir Francis Palgrave, in the passage quoted from
his _History of Normandy_ ("N. & Q.," Vol. viii., p. 20.), has described
the custom of the Normans in raising the country by "the cry of _haro_,"
or _haron_, upon which all the lieges were bound to join in pursuit of
the offender. This _clameur de haron_ is the origin of the English "hue
and cry;" and the word _hue_ itself seems to retain some trace of the
prevailing pedigree.

This stimulating interjection appears, in fact, to have enriched the
French language as well as our own with some of the most expressive
etymologies. It is the parent of the obsolete French verb _harer_, "to
hound on, or excite clamour against any one." And it is to be traced in
the epithet for a worn-out horse, a _haridelle_, or _haridan_.

In like manner, our English expressions, to _hurry_, to _harry_, and
_harass_ a flying enemy, are all instinct with the same impulse, and all
traceable to the same root.

J. EMERSON TENNENT.

The following extract frown Mr. Thos. Dicey's _Hist. of Guernsey_ (edit.
Lond. 1751), pp. 8, 9, 10., may be worth adding to the foregoing notes on
this subject:

    "One thing more relating to _Rollo_ Mr. Falle, in his account
    of Jersey, introduces in the following manner, not only for the
    singularity of it, but the particular concern which that island
    has still in it, viz.--

    "Whether it began through Rollo's own appointment, or took its
    rise among the people from an awful reverence of him for his
    justice, it matters not; but so it is, that a custom obtained
    in his time, that in case of incroachment and invasion of
    property, or of any other oppression and violence requiring
    immediate remedy, the party aggrieved need do no more than
    call upon the name of the Duke, though at never so great a
    distance, thrice repeating aloud _Ha-Ro_, &c., and instantly
    the aggressor was at his peril to forbear attempting anything
    further.--_Aa!_ or _Ha!_ is the exclamation of a person
    suffering; _Ro_ is the Duke's name abbreviated; so that _Ha-Ro_
    is as much as to say, _O! Rollo, my Prince, succour me._
    Accordingly (says Mr. Falle) with us, in Jersey, the cry is,
    _Ha-Ro, à l'aide, mon Prince!_ And this is that famous _Clameur
    de Haro_, subsisting in practice even when Rollo was no more,
    so much praised and commented upon by all who have wrote on the
    Norman laws. A notable example of its virtue and power was seen
    about one hundred and seventy years after Rollo's death, at
    William the Conqueror's funeral, when, in confidence thereof,
    a private man and a subject dared to oppose the burying of his
    body, in the following manner:

    "It seems that, in order to build the great Abbey of St.
    Stephen at Caen, where he intended to lie after his decease,
    the Conqueror had caused several houses to be pulled down
    for enlarging the area, and amongst them one whose owner had
    received no satisfaction for his loss. The son of that person
    (others say the person himself) observing the grave to be dug
    on that very spot of ground which had been the site of his
    father's house, went boldly into the assembly, and forbid them,
    _not in the name of God_, as some have it, but _in the name of
    Rollo_, to bury the body there.

    "Paulus Æmylius, who relates the story, says that he addressed
    himself to the company in these words:--'He who oppressed
    kingdoms by his arms has been my oppressor also, and has kept
    me under a continual fear of death. Since I have outlived him
    who injured me, I mean not to acquit him now he is dead. The
    ground whereon you are going to lay this man is mine; and I
    affirm that none may in justice bury their dead in ground which
    belongs to another. If, after he is gone, force and violence
    are still used to detain my right from me, I APPEAL TO ROLLO,
    the founder and father of our nation, who, though dead, lives
    in his laws. I take refuge in those laws, owning no authority
    above them.'

    "This uncommonly brave speech, spoken in presence of the
    deceased king's own son, Prince Henry, afterwards our King
    Henry I., wrought its effect: the _Ha-Ro_ was respected,
    the man had compensation made him for his wrongs, and, all
    opposition ceasing, the dead king was laid in his grave."

J. SANSOM.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

_Process for Printing on Albumenized Paper._--The power of obtaining
agreeable and well-printed positives from their negatives being the great
object with all photographers, induces me to communicate the following
mode of preparing albumenized paper; a mode which, although it does not
possess any remarkable novelty, seems to me deserving of being made
generally known, from its giving a uniformity of results which may at all
times be depended upon.

{325}

Independently of the very rich and agreeable tones which may be produced
by the process which I am about to describe, it has the property of
affording permanent pictures, not liable to that change by time to
which pictures produced by the use of the ammonio-nitrate solution are
certainly liable. I have upon all occasions advocated the economical
practice of photography, and the present process will be found of that
character; but at the same time I can assure your readers that a rapidity
of action and intensity are hereby obtained with a 40-grain solution of
nitrate of silver, fully equal to those gained from solutions of 120, or
even 200, grains to the ounce, as is frequently practised.

In eight ounces of water (distilled or not) dissolve forty grains of
common salt, and the same quantity of muriate of ammonia.[6] Mix this
solution with eight ounces of albumen; beat[7] the whole well together,
allow it to stand in tall vessel from twenty-four to forty hours, when
the clear liquor may be poured off into a porcelain dish rather larger
than the paper intended to be albumenized.

Undoubtedly the best paper for this process, and relative quantity of
chemicals, is the _thin_ Canson Frères' but a much cheaper, and perhaps
equally suitable paper, is that made by Towgood of St. Neots. Neither
with Whatman's nor Turner's papers, excellent as they are for some
processes, have I obtained such satisfactory results. If the photographer
should unfortunately possess some of the thick paper of any inferior
makers, he had far better throw it away than waste his chemicals, time,
and temper upon the vain endeavour to turn it to any good account.

The paper, having first been marked on the right-hand upper corner of the
smooth side, is then to be floated with that marked side on the albumen.
This operation, which is very easy to perform, is somewhat difficult to
describe. I will however try. Take the marked corner of the sheet in the
right-hand, the opposite corner of the lower side of the paper in the
left; and bellying out the sheet, let the lower end fall gently on to
the albumen. Then gradually let the whole sheet fall, so as to press out
before it any adherent particles of air. If this has been carefully done,
no air-bubbles will have been formed. The presence of an air-bubble may
however soon be detected by the puckered appearance, which the back of
the paper assumes in consequence. When this is the case, the paper must
be carefully raised, the bubble dispersed, and the paper replaced. A thin
paper requires to float for three minutes on the albumen, but a thicker
one proportionably longer. At the end of that time raise the marked
corner with the point of a blanket pin; then take hold of it with the
finger and thumb, and so raise the sheet steadily and _very slowly_, that
the albumen may drain off at the lower left corner. I urge this raising
it very slowly, because air-bubbles are very apt to form on the albumen
by the sudden snatching up of the paper.

Each sheet, as it is removed from the albumen, is to be pinned up by the
marked corner on a long slip of wood, which must be provided for the
purpose. In pinning it up, be careful that the albumenized side takes an
inward curl, otherwise, from there being two angles of incidence, streaks
will form from the middle of the paper. During the drying, remove from
time to time, with a piece of blotting-paper, the drop of fluid which
collects at the lower corner of the paper.

In order to fix the albumen, it is necessary that the paper should be
ironed with an iron as hot as can be used without singeing the paper. It
should be first ironed between blotting-paper, and when the iron begins
to cool, it may be applied directly to the surface of each sheet.

To excite this paper it is only needful to float it carefully from three
to five minutes, in the same way as it was floated on the albumen, upon
a solution of nitrate of silver of forty grains to the ounce. Each sheet
is then to be pinned up and dried as before. It is scarcely necessary to
add, that this exciting process must be carried on by the light of a lamp
or candle.

This paper has the property of keeping good for several days, if kept
in a portfolio. It has also the advantage of being very little affected
by the ordinary light of a room, so that it may be used and handled in
any apartment where the direct light is not shining upon it; yet in a
tolerably intense light it prints much more rapidly than that prepared
with the ammonio-nitrate.

The picture should be fixed in a bath of saturated solution of hypo. The
hypo. never gets discoloured, and should always be carefully preserved.
When a new bath is formed, it is well to add forty grains of chloride of
silver to every eight ounces of the solution.

A beautiful violet or puce tint, with great whiteness of the high lights,
may be obtained by using the following bath as a fixing solution:

    Hyposulphite of soda       8 ounces.
    Sel d'or                   7 grains.
    Iodide of silver          10 grains.
    Water                      8 ounces.

It may be as well to add, that although the nitrate of silver solution
used for exciting becomes {326} discoloured, it acts equally well, even
when of a dark brown colour; but it may always be deprived of its colour,
and rendered sufficiently pure again, by filtering it through a little
animal charcoal.

HUGH W. DIAMOND.

[Footnote 6: The addition of one drachm of acetic acid much facilitates
the easy application of the albumen to the paper; but it is apt to
produce the unpleasant redness so often noticeable in photographs. The
addition of forty grains of chloride of barium to the two muriates,
yields a bistre tint, which is admired by some photographers.]

[Footnote 7: Nothing answers so well for this purpose as a small box-wood
salad spoon.]

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies to Minor Queries.

_Anderson's Royal Genealogies_ (Vol. viii, p. 198.).--In reply to your
correspondent G., I may be permitted to remark that it is generally
understood that _no_ "memoir or biographical account" is extant of Dr.
James Anderson; but _short notices_ of him and his works will be found
on reference to the _Gentleman's Magazine_, vol. liii. p. 41.; Chalmers'
_General Biographical Dictionary_, 1812; Chambers' _Lives of Illustrious
Scotsmen_, 1833; _Biographical Dictionary of the Society of Useful
Knowledge_, 1843; and also in Rose's _New Biographical Dictionary_, 1848.

T. G. S.

Edinburgh.

_Thomas Wright of Durham_ (Vol. viii., p. 218.).--It may interest MR.
DE MORGAN to be referred to a manuscript in the British Museum, marked
"Additional, 15,627.," which he will find to be one of the original
"note-books," if not the very note-book itself, from which the notice of
the life of Thomas Wright was compiled for the _Gentleman's Magazine_.
It is, in fact, an autobiography by Wright, written in the form of a
journal; and although containing entries as late as the year 1780, it
ceases to be continuous with the year 1748, and has no entries at all
between that year and 1756. This break in the journal sufficiently
accounts for the deficiency in the biography given by the _Gentleman's
Magazine_.

I may mention, also, that the Additional MS. 15,628. contains Wright's
unpublished collections relative to British, Roman, and Saxon antiquities
in England.

E. A. BOND.

_Weather Predictions_ (Vol. viii., p. 218. &c.).--The following is a
Worcestershire saying:

    "When Bredon Hill puts on his hat,
    Ye men of the vale, beware of that."

Similar to this is a saying I have heard in the northern part of
Northumberland:

    "When Cheevyut (_i. e._ the Cheviot Hills) ye see put on his cap,
    Of rain ye'll have a wee bit drap."

There is a saying very common in many parts of Huntingdonshire, that when
the woodpeckers are much heard, rain is sure to follow.

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

_Bacon's Essays_: _Bullaces_ (Vol. viii., pp. 167. 223.).--"Bullace" (I
never heard Bacon's plural used) are known in Kent as small white tartish
plums, which do not come to perfection without the help of a frost, and
so are eaten when their fellows are no more found. They have only been
cultivated of late years, I believe, but how long I cannot tell.

G. WILLIAM SKYRING.

Somerset House.

"Bullaces" are a small white or yellow plum, about the size of a cherry,
like very poor kind of greengage, which, in ordinary seasons, when I was
a boy, were the common display of the fruit-stalls at the corners of the
streets, so common and well known that I can only imagine MR. HALLIWELL
to have misdescribed them by a slip of the pen writing black for white.

FRANK HOWARD.

"Gennitings" are early apples (_quasi June-eatings_, as "gilliflowers,"
said to be corrupted from July flowers). For the derivation suggested to
me while I write, I cannot answer; but for the fact I can, having, while
at school in Needham Market, Suffolk, plucked and eaten many a "striped
genniting," while "codlins" were on a tree close by. And many a time have
I been rallied as a Cockney for saying I had gathered "enough" instead of
"enow," which one of your Suffolk correspondents has justly recorded as
the county expression applied to number as distinguished from quantity.

FRANK HOWARD.

_Nixon the Prophet_ (Vol. viii., p. 257.).--MR. T. HUGHES mentions Nixon
"to have lived and prophesied in the reign of James I., at whose court,
we are farther told, he was, in conformity with his own prediction,
starved to death." I have an old and ragged edition, entitled _The Life
and Prophecies of the celebrated Robert Nixon, the Cheshire Prophet_.
The "life" professes to be prepared from materials collected in the
neighbourhood of Vale Royal, on a farm near which, and rented by his
father, Nixon was born--

    "on Whitsunday, and was christened by the name of Robert in the
    year 1467, about the seventh year of Edward IV."

Among various matters it is mentioned,--

    "What rendered Nixon the most noticed was, that the time when
    the battle of Bosworth Field was fought between King Richard
    III. and King Henry VII., he stopped his team on a sudden, and
    with his whip pointing from one land to the other, cried 'Now
    Richard! now Henry!' several times, till at last he said, 'Now
    Harry, get over that ditch and you gain the day!'"

This the plough-holder related; it afterwards proved to be true, and
in consequence Robert was required to attend Henry VII.'s court, where
he was "starved to death," owing to having been locked in a room and
forgotten. The Bosworth Field prophecy, which has often been repeated,
{327} carries the time of Nixon's existence much before the period named
by T. HUGHES, namely, James I.'s reign.

A HERMIT AT HAMPSTEAD.

_Parochial Libraries_ (Vol. viii., p. 62.).--There is an extensive, and
rather valuable, library attached to St. Mary's Church, Bridgenorth,
presented to and for the use of the parishioners, by Dean Stackhouse
in 1750. It comprises some eight hundred volumes, chiefly divinity.
There are two or three fine MSS. in the collection, one especially
worthy of notice. A splendidly illuminated Latin MS., dated about 1460,
engrossed upon vellum, and extending to three hundred leaves (C. 62. in
the Catalogue). I noticed many fragments of early MSS. bound up with
Hebrew and Latin editions of the Bible; and a portion of a remarkably
fine missal, forming the dexter cover of a copy of Laertius _de Vita
Philosophica_ (4to. 1524). Surely a society may be formed, having for its
object the rescuing, transcribing, and printing of those scarcely noticed
fragments. MR. HALES' plan appears perfectly feasible. I am convinced
much interesting matter would be brought to light, if a little interest
was excited on the subject.

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

Over the porch of Nantwich Church is a small room, once the repository
of the ecclesiastical records; but latterly (in consequence of the
sacrilegious abstraction of those documents by an unknown hand) used for
a library of theological works, placed there for the special behoof of
the neighbouring clergy. The collection is but a small one; and is, I
fear, not often troubled by those for whose use it was designed.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

_"Ampers and," &c._ (Vol. viii., p. 173.).--MR. C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY
having revived this Query without apparently being aware of the previous
discussion and of MR. NICHOLL'S solution, "and _per se_ and," may I be
permitted to enter a protest against the latter mixture of English and
Latin, though fully concurring in the statement of MR. NICHOLL, that it
is a rapidly formed _et_ (&). To the variety of pronunciations already
appearing in "N. & Q.," let me add what I believe will be found to be the
most general, _empesand_, which I believe to be a corruption from _emm,
ess, and_ (MS. and) by the introduction of a _labial_, as in many other
instances. But has any one ever seen it _spelt_ till the Query appeared
in "N. & Q.," and where?

FRANK HOWARD.

_The Arms of De Sissonne_ (Vol. viii., p. 243.).--There is a copy of
_Histoire Généalogique et Chronologique de la Maison Royale de France,
par le Père Anselme_, nine vols. folio, Paris, 1726-33, in the library
of Sir R. Taylor's Institution, Oxford. The arms of the Seigneurs de
Sissonne are not _blazoned_ in it. It is stated by Anselme, that

    "Louis, Bâtard de Sarrebruche-Roucy, fils naturel de Jean de
    Sarrebruche, Comte de Roucy, fut Seigneur de Sissonne, servit
    sous Jean d'Humières, et est nommé dans plusieurs actes des
    années 1510, 1515, 1517, et 1518. Il fit un accord devant
    le prevôt de Paris avec Robert de Sarrebruche, Comte de
    Roucy, le 28 Mars, 1498, touchant la terre et châtellenie de
    Sissonne."--Tome viii. p. 537.

The arms of the "Comte de Sarrebruche, Sire de Commercy en Lorraine,
Conseiller et Chambellan du Roi, Bouteiller de France," &c., are
represented--

    "D'azur semé de croix recroisetées au pied fiché d'or, au lion
    d'argent couronné d'or sur le tout."

The following are also extracts from the _Histoire Généalogique_:

    "Louis de Roucy, Comte de Sissonne, élection de Laon, portoit
    d'or au lion d'azur."...

    "Le Nobiliaire de Picardie, in 4º. p. 46., donne à Louis de
    Roucy, Comte de Sissonne, deux neveux, Charles et Louis de
    Roucy, Seigneurs d'Origny et de Ste Preuve."--Tome viii. p. 538.

J. MACRAY.

_St. Patrick's Purgatory_ (Vol. vii., p. 552.).--Some degree of doubt
appearing to exist, by the statement in p. 178. of the present volume,
as to the position of the _real_ St. Patrick's Purgatory, I send the
following from Camden:

    "The _Liffey_," says he, "near unto his spring head, enlarges
    his stream and spreads abroad into a _lake_, wherein appears
    above the water an island, and in it, hard by a little
    monastery, a very narrow vault within the ground, much spoken
    of by reason of its religious horrors. Which cave some say was
    dug by Ulysses when he went down to parley with those in hell.

    "The inhabitants," he continues, "term it in these days _Ellan
    n' Frugadory_, that is, _The Isle of Purgatory_, or _St.
    Patrick's Purgatory_. For some persons devoutly credulous
    affirm that St. Patrick, the Irishmen's apostle, or else some
    abbot of the same name, obtained by most earnest prayer at
    the hands of God, that the punishments and torments which the
    wicked are to suffer after this life, might _here_ be presented
    to the eye; that so he might the more easily root out the sins
    and heathenish errors which stuck so fast to his countrymen the
    _Irish_."

G. W.

Stansted, Montfichet.

_Sir George Carr_ (Vol. vii., pp. 512. 558.).--Since W. ST. and GULIELMUS
replied to my Query, I have discovered more particular information
regarding him. In a MS. in Trinity College, Dublin, I find the following:

    "Sir George Carr of Southerhall, Yorkshire, married, on Jan.
    15, 1637, Grissell, daughter of Sir Robert Meredith, Chancellor
    of the Exchequer in Ireland; their son, William Carr, born
    Jan. 11, 1639, married {328} on August 29, 1665, Elizabeth,
    daughter of Francis (Edward) Synge, Bishop of Cork. There were
    two children of this marriage: Edward, born Oct. 7, 1671 (who
    died unmarried); and Barbara, born May 12, 1672; she married
    John Cliffe, Esq., of Mulrankin, co. Wexford, and had several
    children, of whom the eldest, John, was grandfather of the
    present Anthony Cliffe of Bellevue, co. Wexford, Esq."

Edward Synge was Bishop of Cork from Dec. 1663 to his death in 1678.

Sir George Carr appears to be the son of William Carr, the eldest son of
James Carr of Yorkshire: see Harl. MS. 1487, 451.

Sir Robert Meredith, father of Lady Carr, married Anne, daughter of Sir
William Upton, Clerk of the Council in Ireland.

Could any of your correspondents give any account of the family of either
of them?

Y. S. M.

_Gravestone Inscription_ (Vol. viii., p. 268.).--The gravestone
inscription communicated by JULIA R. BOCKETT consists of the last four
lines of the ballad of "Death and the Lady" (see Dixon's _Ballads_, by
the Percy Society). They should be:

    "The grave's the market-place where all men meet,
    Both rich and poor, as well as small and great:
    If life were merchandise that gold could buy,
    The rich would live, the poor alone would die."

In the introduction to Smith's edition of Holbein's _Dance of Death_, the
editor says:

    "The concluding lines have been converted into an epitaph, _to
    be found in most of our village churchyards_."

Of the truth of which assertion the churchyard of Milton-next-Gravesend,
in Kent, furnishes an illustration, as I copied the lines from a stone
there some years ago. Being generally, I imagine, quoted from memory,
they do not appear to be exactly similar in any two instances.

S. SINGLETON.

Greenwich.

"_A Tub to the Whale_" (Vol. viii., pp. 220. 304.).--I observe that a
Querist, PIMLICO, asks the origin of the phrase to "throw a tub to the
whale." I think an explanation of this will be found in the introduction
to Swift's _Tale of the Tub_. I cannot lay my hand on the passage, but it
is to the effect that sailors engaged in the Greenland fisheries make it
a practice to throw over-board a _tub_ to a wounded whale, to divert his
attention from the boat which contains his assailants.

J. EMERSON TENNENT.

_Hour-glasses in Pulpits_ (Vol. vii., p. 489.; Vol. viii., pp. 82.
209.).--Whilst turning over the pages of Macaulay's _History_, I
accidentally stumbled upon the following passage, which forms an
interesting addition to the Notes already collected in your pages.
Speaking of Gilbert Burnet, Bishop of Salisbury, he says:

    "He was often interrupted by the deep hum of his audience;
    and when, after preaching out the hour-glass, which in those
    days was part of the furniture of the pulpit, he held it in
    his hand, the congregation clamorously encouraged him to go on
    till the sand had run off once more."--Macaulay's _History_,
    vol. ii. p. 177. edit. 8., with a reference in a foot-note to
    Speaker Onslow's Note on _Burnet_, i. 596.; Johnson's _Life of
    Sprat_.

The hour-glass stand at St. Alban's, Wood Street, appears to be a
remarkable example: see Sperling's _Church Walks in Middlesex_, p.
155., and Allen's _Lambeth_. And in the report of the meeting of the
Archæological Association at Rochester, in the _Illustrated London News_
of the 6th August, 1853, it is noted that in the church at Cliff, "the
pulpit has an hour-glass stand dated 1636:" the date gives an additional
interest to this example.

W. SPARROW SIMPSON.

_Slow-worm Superstition_ (Vol. viii., p. 33.).--The slow-worm
superstition, about which TOWER inquires, and to whom I believe no answer
has been returned, is quite common in the North of England. One of the
many uses of "N. & Q." is the abundant proof that supposed localisms are
in fact common to all England. I learn from the same Number, p. 44.,
that in Devonshire a slater is called a _hellier_. _To hill_, that is to
cover, "hill me up," _i. e._ cover me up, is as common in Lancashire as
in Wicliff's Bible. We have not, however, _hellier_ or _hillier_ for one
whose business it is to cover in a house.

P. P.

_Sincere_ (Vol. viii., p. 195.).--I should be glad if MR. INGLEBY would
point out any authority for the practice of the Roman potters to which
he refers. The only passage I can call to mind as countenancing his
derivation is Hor. _Ep._ i. 2. 54.:

    "Sincerum est nisi vas, quodcumque infundis, acescit."

in which there is no reason why _sincerum_ should not be simply _sine
cera_, _sine fuco_, i. e. pure as honey, free or freed from the wax,
thence anything pure. This derivation is supported also by Donatus, ad
Ter. _Eun._ i. 2. 97., and Noltenius, _Lex. Antibar_. Cicero also, who
chose his expressions with great accuracy, employs _sincerus_ as directly
opposed to _fucatus_ in his _Dialogus de Amicit._ 25.:

    "Secernere omnis fucata et simulata a sinceris atque veris."

In the absence of positive proof on the side, I am inclined to think MR.
TRENCH right.

H. B.

_Books chained to Desks in Churches--Seven Candlesticks_ (Vol. viii.,
pp. 94. 206.).--In Mr. Sperling's _Church Walks in Middlesex_, it is
noted {329} in the account of the church at Whitchurch (_alias_ Little
Stanmore), that--

    "Many of the prayer books, given by the duke [of Chandos],
    still remain chained to the pues for the use of the poorer
    parishioners."--P. 104.

At p. 138. a curious ornament of some of the London churches is referred
to:

    "We find several altar-pieces in which seven wooden
    candlesticks, with wooden candles, are introduced, viz. St.
    Mary-at-Hill; St. Ethelburgs, Bishopsgate; Hammersmith, &c.:
    these are merely typical of the seven golden candlesticks of
    the Apocalypse."--Rev. i. 20.

This portion of ecclesiastical furniture appears to me sufficiently
unusual to be worth noting in your pages: is it to be found elsewhere
than in churches in and near London? If not, a list of these churches in
which it is now to be seen would be acceptable to ecclesiologists.

W. SPARROW SIMPSON.

Oxford.

_D. Ferrand; French Patois_ (Vol. viii., p. 243.).--The full title
of Ferrand's work, referred to by your correspondent MR. B. SNOW of
Birmingham, is as follows:

    "Inventaire Général de la Muse Normande, divisée en XXVIII
    parties où sont descrites plusieurs batailles, assauts,
    prises de villes, guerres etrangères, victoires de la France,
    histoires comiques, Esmotions populaires, grabuges et choses
    remarquables arrivées à Rouen depuis quarante années, in 8o. et
    se vendent à Rouen, chez l'arthevr, rue du Bac, à l'Enseigne de
    l'imprimerie, M.DC.LV., pages 484."

There is also another publication by Ferrand with the title of--

    "Les Adieux de la Muse Normande aux Palinots, et quelques
    autres pièces, pages 28."

The author was a printer at Rouen, and the patois in which his
productions are written is the Norman. The _Biographie Universelle_ says
they are the best known of all that are composed in that dialect.

J. MACRAY.

_Wood of the Cross_ (Vol. vii., pp. 177. 334. 437. 488.).--Is it an old
belief that the cross was composed of four different kinds of wood? Boys,
in a note on Ephesians iii. 18. (_Works_, p. 495.), says, "Other have
discoursed of the foure woods, and dimensions in the materiall crosse of
Christ, more subtilly than soundly," and refers in the margin to Anselm
and Aquinas, but without giving the reference to the exact passages. Can
any of your readers supply this deficiency?

R. J. ALLEN.

_Ladies' Arms in a Lozenge_ (Vol. viii., pp. 37. 83.).--BROCTUNA has a
theory that ladies bear their arms in a lozenge, because hatchments are
of that shape; and it is probably that widows in old time "would vie
with each other in these displays of the insignia of mourning." It has,
however, escaped his memory, that maids with living fathers also use
the lozenge, and that in a man's hatchment it is the _frame_ only, and
not the shield at all, which has the lozenge shape. The man's arms in
the hatchment not being on a lozenge, it is scarcely possible his widow
could thence have adopted it. He suggests that the shape was adopted for
hatchments as being the most convenient for admitting the arms of the
sixteen ancestors.

I wish to insert a Query, as to whether the sixteen quarters _ever were_
made use of this way in English heraldry? Perhaps your readers will be
willing to allow that the lozenge is surely a fitting emblem for the
_sweeter_ sex; but is not the routine reason the true one after all? The
lozenge has a supposed resemblance to the distaff, the emblem of the
woman. We have spinster from the same idea; and, though I cannot now
turn to the passage, I am sure I have seen the Salic law described as
forbidding "the holder of the distaff to grasp the sceptre."

P. P.

_Burial in unconsecrated Ground_ (Vol. vi., p. 448.; Vol. viii., p.
43.).--The late elegant and accomplished Sir W. Temple, though he laid
not his whole body in his garden, deposited the better part of it (his
heart) there; "and if my executors will gratify me in what I have
desired, I wish my corpse may be interred as I have bespoke them; not at
all out of singularity, or for want of a dormitory (of which there is
an ample one annexed to the parish church), but for other reasons not
necessary here to trouble the reader with, what I have said in general
being sufficient. However, let them order as they think fit, so it be not
_in the church or chancel_." (Evelyn's _Sylva_, book iv.)

    "In the north aisle of the chancel [of Wotton Church] is the
    burying-place of the Evelyns (within which is lately made,
    under a decent arched chapel, a vault). In the chancel on the
    north side is a tomb, about three feet high, of freestone,
    shaped like a coffin; on the top, on white marble, is this
    inscription:

    'Here lies the Body
    of JOHN EVELYN, Esq.'"[8]

This inscription commemorates the author of _Sylva_, and evinces how
unobsequiously obsequies are sometimes solemnised.

Evelyn mentions Sumner _On Garden Burial_, probably "not circulated."

BIBLIOTHECAR. CHETHAM.

[Footnote 8: Aubrey's _Natural History and Antiquities of Surrey_, vol.
iv.]

_Table-turning_ (Vol. viii., p. 57.).--Without going the length of
asserting, with La Bruyère, that "tout est dit," or believing, with
Dutens, that there is no modern discovery that was not known, in some
shape or other, to the ancients, it seems {330} not unreasonable to
suppose that table-turning, the principle of which lies so near the
surface of social life, was practised in former ages.

This reminds one of the expression, so familiar among controversialists,
of "turning the tables" upon an adversary. What is the origin of the
latter phrase? It is time some explanation of it were offered, if only to
caution the etymologists of a future age against confounding it with our
"table-turning."

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

_"Well's a fret"_ (Vol. viii., p. 197.).--I beg leave to suggest to
DEVONIENSIS the following as a probable explanation of the use of this
phrase; the rhyme that follows being superadded, for the sake of the
jingle and the truism, in the best style of rustic humour.

Well! is often used in conversation as an expletive, even by educated
people, a slight pause ensuing after the ejaculation, as if to collect
the thoughts before the reply is given. Is it not therefore called a
_fret_, or stop, in the Devon vernacular, figuratively, like the fret
or stop in a musical instrument, the cross bars or protuberance in a
stringed, and a peg in a wind instrument?

Hamlet says, in taunting Rosencrantz for his treasonable attempts to worm
himself into his confidence,--

    "Call me what instrument you will; though you can _fret_ me,
    you cannot play upon me."

Taken in this other sense in which we use the word _fret_, is it not
probable that it has passed into a proverb; and that the lines, as given
by DEVONIENSIS, are a corruption of

            "Well! don't fret;
    He who dies for love will never be hang'd for debt."

--the invention of some Damon to comfort Strephon in his loneliness.

M. (2)

_Tenet for Tenent_ (Vol. viii., p. 258.).--The note of your correspondent
BALLIOLENSIS does not address itself to the Query put by Y. B. N. J. in
Vol. vii., p. 205., When did the use of _tenent_ give way to _tenet_?

You will find that Burton, in the _Anatomy of Melancholy_, which was
published in 1621, uses uniformly _tenent_ (vide vol. i. pp. 1. 317. 408.
430. 446. &c.)

But Sir Thomas Browne in 1646, twenty-four years later, printed the first
edition of his _Vulgar Errors_ under the title of _Pseudodoxia epidemica,
or Enquiries into very many received Tenets and commonly presumed Truths_.

I cannot find that Burton in any passage respects the grammatical
distinction suggested by both your correspondents, that _tenet_ should
denote the opinion of an individual, and _tenent_ those of a sect.
He applies the latter indifferently, both as regards the plural and
singular. Thus, "Aponensis thinks it proceeds," but "Laurentius condemns
_his tenent_" (part i. sect. iii. mem. 3.). And again, "they are furious,
impatient in discourse, stiff and irrefragable in _their tenents_" (ib.
p. i. s. iv. mem. 1. sub. 3.).

J. EMERSON TENNENT.

       *       *       *       *       *




Miscellaneous.


BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

NICEPHORUS CATENA ON THE PENTATEUCH.

PROCOPIUS GAZÆUS.

WATT'S BIBLIOGRAPHIA BRITANNICA. Parts V. and VI.

MAXWELL'S DIGEST OF THE LAW OF INTESTATES.

CARLYLE'S CHARTISM. Crown 8vo. 2nd Edition.

THE BUILDER, No. 520.

OSWALLI CROLLII OPERA. 12mo. Geneva, 1635.

GAFFARELL'S UNHEARD-OF CURIOSITIES. Translated by Chelmead. London. 12mo.
1650.

BEAUMONT'S PSYCHE. 2nd Edit. folio. Camb., 1702.

THE MONTHLY ARMY LIST from 1797 to 1800 inclusive. Published by Hookham
and Carpenter, Bond Street. Square 12mo.

JER. COLLIER'S ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY OF ENGLAND. Folio Edition. Vol. II.

LONDON LABOUR AND THE LONDON POOR.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE LONDON GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

PRESCOTT'S HISTORY OF THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 3 Vols. London. Vol. III.

MRS. ELLIS'S SOCIAL DISTINCTIONS. Tallis's Edition. Vols. II. and III.
8vo.


PAMPHLETS.

JUNIUS DISCOVERED. By P. T. Published about 1789.

REASONS FOR REJECTING THE EVIDENCE OF MR. ALMON, &c. 1807.

ANOTHER GUESS AT JUNIUS. Hookham. 1809.

THE AUTHOR OF JUNIUS DISCOVERED. Longmans. 1821.

THE CLAIMS OF SIR P. FRANCIS REFUTED. Longmans. 1822.

WHO WAS JUNIUS? Glynn. 1837.

SOME NEW FACTS, &c., by Sir F. Dwarris. 1850.

⁂ _Correspondents sending Lists of Books Wanted are requested to send
their names and addresses._

⁂ Letters, stating particulars and lowest price, _carriage free_, to be
sent to MR. BELL, Publisher of "NOTES AND QUERIES," 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Notices to Correspondents.

OUR SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.--_We have been assured that our
observations under this head have been understood by some readers as
being directed especially against the gentleman whose contribution
called forth the letter from_ ICON, _on which we were commenting.
Although we are satisfied that there is nothing in them to warrant such
a supposition, we can have no objection to assure_ A. E. B., _and his
friends, that they were intended to be of general, and not of individual,
application. We may add, to prevent any misconception on this point,
that that gentleman was not the writer of the unfounded argument against
the genuineness of the_ Notes and Emendations _referred to in the same
remarks._

_The communications sent to us for_ H. C. K. _and the_ REV. W. SISSON
_have been forwarded; as have also the_ Letters from The Times _to_ ARAN
_from two Correspondents._

S. C. P. _will find Landsborough's_ Popular History of British Seaweeds,
_published by Reeve and Co., price 10s. 6d., a small but comprehensive
work._

J. S. (Islington). _Any letter sent to us shall be forwarded to_ CUTHBERT
BEDE.

BRIAN O'LINN _will find his Query as to_ Cold Harbour _discussed in our_
1st _and_ 2nd Vols.

HENLEY. _Nothing preserves the Collodion pictures so well as the_ amber
varnish _originally recommended in_ "N. & Q.", (_see_ No. 188.), _and
which may now be had at most of the Photographic Chemists._

_Answers to other Correspondents next week._

"NOTES AND QUERIES" _is published at noon on Friday, so that the Country
Booksellers may receive Copies in that night's parcels, and deliver them
to their Subscribers on the Saturday._

       *       *       *       *       *

{331}

INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, NERVOUSNESS, &c.--BARRY, DU BARRY & CO.'S
HEALTH-RESTORING FOOD for INVALIDS and INFANTS.

THE REVALENTA ARABICA FOOD,

the only natural, pleasant, and effectual remedy (without medicine,
purging, inconvenience, or expense, as it saves fifty times its cost in
other remedies) for nervous, stomachic, intestinal, liver and bilious
complaints, however deeply rooted, dyspepsia (indigestion), habitual
constipation, diarrhœa, acidity, heartburn, flatulency, oppression,
distension, palpitation, eruption of the skin, rheumatism, gout, dropsy,
sickness at the stomach during pregnancy, at sea, and under all other
circumstances, debility in the aged as well as infants, fits, spasms,
cramps, paralysis, &c.

_A few out of 50,000 Cures_:--

Cure, No. 71, of dyspepsia; from the Right Hon. the Lord Stuart de
Decies:--"I have derived considerable benefits from your Revalenta
Arabica Food, and consider it due to yourselves and the public to
authorise the publication of these lines.--STUART DE DECIES."

Cure, No. 49,832:--"Fifty years' indescribable agony from dyspepsia,
nervousness, asthma, cough, constipation, flatulency, spasms, sickness
at the stomach and vomitings have been removed by Du Barry's excellent
food.--MARIA JOLLY, Wortham Ling, near Diss, Norfolk."

Cure, No. 180:--"Twenty-five years' nervousness, constipation,
indigestion, and debility, from which I had suffered great misery and
which no medicine could remove or relieve, have been effectually cured
by Du Barry's food in a very short time.--W. R. REEVES, Pool Anthony,
Tiverton."

Cure, No. 4,208:--"Eight years' dyspepsia, nervousness, debility, with
cramps, spasms, and nausea, for which my servant had consulted the advice
of many, have been effectually removed by Du Barry's delicious food in a
very short time. I shall be happy to answer any inquiries.--REV. JOHN W.
FLAVELL, Ridlington Rectory, Norfolk."

    _Dr. Wurzer's Testimonial._

    "Bonn, July 19, 1852.

    "This light and pleasant Farina is one of the most excellent,
    nourishing, and restorative remedies, and supersedes, in many
    cases, all kinds of medicines. It is particularly useful in
    confined habit of body, as also diarrhœa, bowel complaints,
    affections of the kidneys and bladder, such as stone or gravel;
    inflammatory irritation and cramp of the urethra, cramp of
    the kidneys and bladder, strictures, and hemorrhoids. This
    really invaluable remedy is employed with the most satisfactory
    result, not only in bronchial and pulmonary complaints, where
    irritation and pain are to be removed, but also in pulmonary
    and bronchial consumption, in which it counteracts effectually
    the troublesome cough; and I am enabled with perfect truth
    to express the conviction that Du Barry's Revalenta Arabica
    is adapted to the cure of incipient hectic complaints and
    consumption.

    "DR. RUD WURZER.
    "Counsel of Medicine, and practical M.D. in Bonn."

London Agents:--Fortnum, Mason & Co., 182. Piccadilly, purveyors to Her
Majesty the Queen; Hedges & Butler, 155. Regent Street; and through
all respectable grocers, chemists, and medicine venders. In canisters,
suitably packed for all climates, and with full instructions, 1lb. 2_s._
9_d._; 2lb. 4_s._ 6_d._; 5lb. 11_s._; 12lb. 22_s._; super-refined, 5lb.
22_s._; 10lb. 33_s._ The 10lb. and 12lb. carriage free, on receipt of
Post-office order.--Barry, Du Barry & Co., 77. Regent Street, London.

IMPORTANT CAUTION.--Many invalids having been seriously injured by
spurious imitations under closely similar names, such as Ervalenta,
Arabaca, and others, the public will do well to see that each canister
bears the name BARRY, DU BARRY & CO., 77. Regent Street, London, in full,
_without which none is genuine_.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC PICTURES.--A Selection of the above beautiful Productions
(comprising Views in VENICE, PARIS, RUSSIA, NUBIA, &c.) may be seen at
BLAND & LONG'S, 153. Fleet Street, where may also be procured Apparatus
of every Description, and pure Chemicals for the practice of Photography
in all its Branches.

Calotype, Daguerreotype, and Glass Pictures for the Stereoscope.

⁂ Catalogues may be had on application.

BLAND & LONG, Opticians, Philosophical and Photographical Instrument
Makers, and Operative Chemists, 153. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHY.--HORNE & CO.'S Iodized Collodion, for obtaining
Instantaneous Views and Portraits in from three to thirty seconds,
according to light.

Portraits obtained by the above, for delicacy of detail rival the
choicest Daguerreotypes, specimens of which may be seen at their
Establishment.

Also every description of Apparatus, Chemicals, &c. &c. used in this
beautiful Art.--123. and 121. Newgate Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPER.--Negative and Positive Papers of Whatman's, Turner's,
Sanford's, and Canson Frères' make. Waxed-Paper for Le Gray's Process.
Iodized and Sensitive Paper for every kind of Photography.

Sold by JOHN SANFORD, Photographic Stationer, Aldine Chambers, 13.
Paternoster Row, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPROVEMENT IN COLLODION.--J. B. HOCKIN & CO., Chemists, 289. Strand,
have, by an improved mode of Iodizing, succeeded in producing a Collodion
equal, they may say superior, in sensitiveness and density of Negative,
to any other hitherto published; without diminishing the keeping
properties and appreciation of half tint for which their manufacture has
been esteemed.

Apparatus, pure Chemicals, and all the requirements for the practice of
Photography. Instruction in the Art.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CAMERAS.--OTTEWILL'S REGISTERED DOUBLE-BODIED FOLDING
CAMERA, is superior to every other form of Camera, for the Photographic
Tourist, from its capability of Elongation or Contraction to any Focal
Adjustment, its extreme Portability, and its adaptation for taking either
Views or Portraits.

Every Description of Camera, or Slides, Tripod Stands, Printing Frames,
&c., may be obtained at his MANUFACTORY, Charlotte Terrace, Barnsbury
Road, Islington.

New Inventions, Models, &c., made to order or from Drawings.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC APPARATUS, MATERIALS, and PURE CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS.

KNIGHT & SONS' Illustrated Catalogue, containing Description and Price
of the best forms of Cameras and other Apparatus. Voightlander and Son's
Lenses for Portraits and Views, together with the various Materials, and
pure Chemical Preparations required in practising the Photographic Art.
Forwarded free on receipt of Six Postage Stamps.

Instructions given in every branch of the Art.

An extensive Collection of Stereoscopic and other Photographic Specimens.

GEORGE KNIGHT & SONS, Foster Lane, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

WESTERN LIFE ASSURANCE AND ANNUITY SOCIETY,

3. PARLIAMENT STREET, LONDON.

Founded A.D. 1842.

_Directors._

    H. E. Bicknell, Esq.
    T. S. Cocks, Jun. Esq., M. P.
    G. H. Drew, Esq.
    W. Evans, Esq.
    W. Freeman, Esq.
    F. Fuller, Esq.
    J. H. Goodhart, Esq.
    T. Grissell, Esq.
    J. Hunt, Esq.
    J. A. Lethbridge, Esq.
    E. Lucas, Esq.
    J. Lys Seager, Esq.
    J. B. White, Esq.
    J. Carter Wood, Esq.

_Trustees._--W. Whateley, Esq., Q.C.; George Drew, Esq.; T. Grissell, Esq.

_Physician._--William Rich. Basham, M.D.

_Bankers._--Messrs. Cocks, Biddulph, and Co., Charing Cross.

VALUABLE PRIVILEGE.

POLICIES effected in this Office do not become void through temporary
difficulty in paying a Premium, as permission is given upon application
to suspend the payment at interest, according to the conditions detailed
in the Prospectus.

Specimens of Rates of Premium for Assuring 100_l._, with a Share in
three-fourths of the Profits:--

    Age _£_ _s._ _d._
    17   1   14   4
    22   1   18   8
    27   2    4   5
    32   2   10   8
    37   2   18   6
    42   3    8   2

ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A., F.R.A.S., Actuary.

Now ready, price 10_s._ 6_d._, Second Edition with material additions,
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT and EMIGRATION: being a TREATISE on BENEFIT
BUILDING SOCIETIES, and on the General Principles of Land Investment,
exemplified in the Cases of Freehold Land Societies, Building Companies,
&c. With a Mathematical Appendix on Compound Interest and Life Assurance.
By ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A., Actuary to the Western Life Assurance
Society, 3. Parliament Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

BANK OF DEPOSIT.

7. St. Martin's Place, Trafalgar Square, London.

PARTIES desirous of INVESTING MONEY are requested to examine the Plan of
this Institution, by which a high rate of Interest may be obtained with
perfect Security.

Interest payable in January and July.

    PETER MORRISON,
    Managing Director.

Prospectuses free on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

DAGUERREOTYPE MATERIALS.--Plates. Cases. Passepartoutes. Best and
Cheapest. To be had in great variety at

M'MILLAN'S Wholesale Depot, 132. Fleet Street.

Price List Gratis.

       *       *       *       *       *

BENNETT'S MODEL WATCH, as shown at the GREAT EXHIBITION, No. 1. Class
X., in Gold and Silver Cases, in five qualities, and adapted to all
Climates, may now be had at the MANUFACTORY, 65. CHEAPSIDE. Superior
Gold London-made Patent Levers, 17, 15, and 12 guineas. Ditto, in Silver
Cases, 8, 6, and 4 guineas. First-rate Geneva Levers, in Gold Cases, 12,
10, and 8 guineas. Ditto, in Silver Cases, 8, 6, and 5 guineas. Superior
Lever, with Chronometer Balance, Gold, 27, 23, and 19 guineas. Bennett's
Pocket Chronometer, Gold, 50 guineas, Silver, 40 guineas. Every Watch
skilfully examined, timed, and its performance guaranteed. Barometers,
2_l._, 3_l._, and 4_l._ Thermometers from 1_s._ each.

BENNETT, Watch, Clock, and Instrument Maker to the Royal Observatory, the
Board of Ordnance, the Admiralty, and the Queen, 65. CHEAPSIDE.

       *       *       *       *       *

{332}

BOHN'S STANDARD LIBRARY FOR OCTOBER.

SMITH'S (ADAM) THEORY OF MORAL SENTIMENTS; with his ESSAY ON THE FIRST
FORMATION OF LANGUAGES; to which is added a Biographical and Critical
Memoir of the Author by DUGALD STEWART. Post 8vo. cloth. 3_s._ 6_d._

HENRY G. BOHN, 4, 5, & 6. York Street, Covent Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOHN'S CLASSICAL LIBRARY FOR OCTOBER.

CICERO ON THE NATURE OF THE GODS. DIVINATION, FATE, LAWS, REPUBLIC, ETC.,
translated by C. D. YONGE, B.A. and FRANCIS BARHAM, ESQ. Post 8vo. cloth.
5_s._

ÆSCHYLUS, APPENDIX TO THE PROSE TRANSLATION, containing the new readings
given in Hermann's posthumous edition of Æschylus, translated and edited
by GEORGE BURGES, M.A. Post 8vo. cloth. 3_s._ 6_d._

HENRY G. BOHN, 4, 5, & 6. York Street, Covent Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOHN'S SCIENTIFIC LIBRARY FOR OCTOBER.

COMTE'S PHILOSOPHY OF THE SCIENCES, edited from the "Cours de Philosophie
Positive," by G. H. LEWES, ESQ. Post 8vo., cloth. 5_s._

HENRY G. BOHN, 4, 5, & 6. York Street, Covent Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOHN'S ANTIQUARIAN LIBRARY FOR OCTOBER.

ORDERICUS VITALIS; his Ecclesiastical History of England and Normandy,
translated with Notes and the Introduction of Guizot, by T. FORESTER,
M.A. Vol. I. Post 8vo., cloth. 5_s._

HENRY G. BOHN, 4, 5, & 6. York Street, Covent Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSIC, ITS HISTORY AND THEORY; Rare Old English and Foreign National
Songs.--Just published, Gratis, a Catalogue of B. QUARITCH'S Choice
Collection of Books in this Literature, comprising the Works of Afzelius,
Bonanni, Burney, Fink, Forkel, Gerbert, Hawkins, Martini, Morley,
Melbomii Mus. Ant. Script., Purcell, Ritson, &c.

BERNARD QUARITCH, Bookseller, 16. Castle Street, Leicester Square, London.

⁂ B. Q.'s Monthly Catalogues are sent Post Free for a year on prepayment
of Twelve Postage Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERALDRY, GENEALOGY ANTIQUITIES PALÆOGRAPHY, ETC.--Just published,
Gratis, a Catalogue of B. QUARITCH'S magnificent Collection of Works
in the above classes, including those of Corbinelli, D'Hozier, Kopp,
Mabillon, Wailly, &c; further rare Armorials, curious Chronicles, and an
extensive assemblage of Books on Normandy.

BERNARD QUARITCH, Bookseller, 16. Castle Street, Leicester Square, London.

⁂ B. QUARITCH'S Monthly Catalogues are sent Post Free for a year on
prepayment of Twelve Postage Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *

This Day, complete in One Volume, 7_s._

CAUTIONS FOR THE TIMES, addressed to the Parishioners of a Parish in
England, by their former Rector. Edited by the ARCHBISHOP OF DUBLIN.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALISON'S HISTORY OF EUROPE.

VOLUME SECOND of the PEOPLE'S EDITION, price 4_s._ is now published, and
may be had of all Booksellers and Newsvenders.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS, Edinburgh and London.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Monthly Parts, at One Shilling,

THE DIARY of a LATE PHYSICIAN. By SAMUEL WARREN, F.R.S.

Parts I. and II. are published, forming the Commencement of a New and
Cheaper Edition of MR. WARREN'S WORKS, to be completed in about Eighteen
Parts, price 1_s._ each.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS, Edinburgh and London.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE AND HISTORICAL REVIEW FOR OCTOBER, contains the
following articles:--

    Memorials of the Author of "The Seasons" and Riccaltoun of
    Hobkirk (with an Engraving).

    Some Account of Relics, by J. G. Waller.

    Inscription on the Church Tower at West Bridgford, Notts (with
    Engravings).

    Wanderings of an Antiquary, by Thomas Wright, F.S.A. No.
    XIV.--Stonehenge (with Engravings).

    The Tour of James Augustus St. John in Search of Beauty.

    Cotele; and the Edgcumbes of the Olden Time, by Mrs. Bray (with
    an Engraving).

    Sir John Bankes's Correspondence--The Story of Corfe Castle.

    The Original Ancient Mariner.

    Malchus the Captive Monk.

With Correspondence, Notes of the Month, Historical and Miscellaneous
Reviews, Historical Chronicle, and OBITUARY: with Memoirs of Major-Gen.
Lord Saltoun; Adm. Sir George Cockburn, G.C.B., Lieut.-Gen. Sir C. J.
Napier, G.C.B.; Lieut.-Gen. Sir Neil Douglas, K.C.B.; Lady Sale; G. W.
W. Pendarves, Esq.; George Lyall, Esq.; Rev. F. W. Robertson; Hugh Edwin
Strickland, Esq.; &c. Price 2_s._ 6_d._

NICHOLS & SONS, 25. Parliament Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW PLAN OF PUBLISHING.

ROBERT HARDWICK, Printer and Publisher, 38. Carey Street, Lincoln's Inn,
begs to inform Authors and Possessors of MSS. that he has brought into
successful Operation a Plan of Publishing which secures an extended
Publicity, and considerable Pecuniary Advantage to the Author, without
his sustaining any risk or loss of interest in his Copyright. Post Free
on receipt of Six Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPORTANT TO STUDENTS.

Published this Day, price 4_s._ 6_d._

THE ART OF REASONING: a Popular Exposition of the Principles of Logic,
Inductive and Deductive. With an Introduction on the History of Logic,
and an Appendix on recent Logical Developments.

London: WALTON & MABERLY.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION.--An EXHIBITION of PICTURES, by the most
celebrated French, Italian, and English Photographers, embracing Views
of the principal Countries and Cities of Europe, is now OPEN. Admission
6_d._ A Portrait taken by MR. TALBOT'S Patent Process, One Guinea; Three
extra Copies for 10_s._

PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION, 168. NEW BOND STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

Price 2_s._ 6_d._; by Post 3_s._

ILLUSTRATIONS AND ENQUIRIES RELATING TO MESMERISM. Part I. By the Rev. S.
R. MAITLAND, D.D. F.R.S. F.S.A. Sometime Librarian to the late Archbishop
of Canterbury, and Keeper of the MSS. at Lambeth.

"One of the most valuable and interesting pamphlets we ever
read."--_Morning Herald._

"This publication, which promises to be the commencement of a larger
work, will well repay serious perusal."--_Ir. Eccl. Journ._

"A small pamphlet in which he throws startling light on the practices of
modern Mesmerism."--_Nottingham Journal._

"Dr. Maitland, we consider, has here brought Mesmerism to the 'touchstone
of truth,' to the test of the standard of right or wrong. We thank him
for this first instalment of his inquiry, and hope that he will not long
delay the remaining portions."--_London Medical Gazette._

"The Enquiries are extremely curious, we should indeed say important.
That relating to the Witch of Endor is one of the most successful we
ever read. We cannot enter into particulars in this brief notice, but
we would strongly recommend the pamphlet even to those who care nothing
about Mesmerism, or _angry_ (for it has come to this at last) with the
subject."--_Dublin Evening Post._

"We recommend its general perusal as being really an endeavour, by one
whose position gives him the best facilities, to ascertain the genuine
character of Mesmerism, which is so much disputed."--_Woolmer's Exeter
Gazette._

"Dr. Maitland has bestowed a vast deal of attention on the subject for
many years past, and the present pamphlet is in part the result of his
thoughts and inquiries. There is a good deal in it which we should have
been glad to quote ... but we content ourselves with referring our
readers to the pamphlet itself."--_Brit. Mag._

PIPER, BROTHERS, & CO., 23. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

Price 1_s._ 6_d._, in cloth,

PHOTOGRAPHY: the Collodion, Calotype, and Daguerreotype Processes, with
Practical Details for the Production of good Pictures upon Prepared
Surfaces of Paper, Glass, and Metal; also simple Rules for taking
Stereoscopic Pictures. By J. HOGG.

"We heartily recommend this book to the attention of the scientific and
admirers of the art."--_Dispatch._

CLARK, 17. Warwick Lane. BAKER, 244. Holborn.

       *       *       *       *       *

W. H. HART, RECORD AGENT and LEGAL ANTIQUARIAN (who is in the possession
of Indices to many of the early Public Records whereby his Inquiries
are greatly facilitated) begs to inform Authors and Gentlemen engaged
in Antiquarian or Literary Pursuits, that he is prepared to undertake
searches among the Public Records, MSS. in the British Museum, Ancient
Wills, or other Depositories of a similar Nature, in any Branch of
Literature, History, Topography, Genealogy or the like, and in which he
has had considerable experience.

1. ALBERT TERRACE, NEW CROSS. HATCHAM, SURREY.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEAL & SON'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF BEDSTEADS, sent free by post.
It contains designs and prices of upwards of ONE HUNDRED different
Bedsteads; also of every description of Bedding, Blankets, and Quilts.
And their new warerooms contain an extensive assortment of Bed-room
Furniture, Furniture Chintzes, Damasks and Dimities, so as to render
their Establishment complete for the general furnishing of Bed-rooms.

HEAL & SON, Bedstead and Bedding Manufacturers, 196. Tottenham Court Road.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed by THOMAS CLARK SHAW, of No. 10. Stonefield Street, in the Parish
of St. Mary, Islington, at No. 5. New Street Square, in the Parish of St.
Bride, in the City of London; and published by GEORGE BELL, of No. 186.
Fleet Street, in the Parish of St. Dunstan in the West, in the City of
London, Publisher, at No. 186. Fleet Street aforesaid.--Saturday, October
1. 1853.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NOTES AND QUERIES, NUMBER 205,
OCTOBER 1, 1853 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
