The Project Gutenberg eBook of His Royal Nibs, by Winifred Eaton
Reeve

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: His Royal Nibs

Author: Winifred Eaton Reeve

Release Date: August 30, 2021 [eBook #66184]

Language: English

Produced by: Mary Glenn Krause, Larkspur, Ohio State University and the
             Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images
             made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HIS ROYAL NIBS ***





  HIS ROYAL
  NIBS

  _By_
  WINIFRED EATON REEVE
  AUTHOR OF “CATTLE,” ETC.

[Illustration]

  W. J. WATT & CO.
  PUBLISHERS
  601 MADISON AVE., NEW YORK.




  COPYRIGHT, 1925, BY
  W. J. WATT & COMPANY


_Printed in the United States of America_




  To
  CARL LAEMMLE

  FOR WHOM THE AUTHOR HAS
  THE SINCEREST ADMIRATION




_His Royal Nibs_




CONTENTS

  CHAPTER                     PAGE

  I.                           7

  II.                          20

  III.                         29

  IV.                          40

  V.                           55

  VI.                          69

  VII.                         83

  VIII.                        85

  IX.                          104

  X.                           116

  XI.                          132

  XII.                         143

  XIII.                        159

  XIV.                         162

  XV.                          169

  XVI.                         183

  XVII.                        196

  XVIII.                       208

  XIX.                         221

  XX.                          238

  XXI.                         248

  XXII.                        253

  XXIII.                       261

  XXIV.                        274

  XXV.                         284

  XXVI.                        290

  XXVII.                       302




HIS ROYAL NIBS


CHAPTER I


Along the Banff National Highway, automobiles sped by in a cloud of
dust, heat, noise and odour. They stopped not to offer a lift to
the wayfarer along the road, for they were intent upon making the
evergrowing grade to Banff on “high.”

This year tramps were common on the road, war veterans, for the most
part, “legging it” from Calgary to lumber or road camp, or making for
the ranches in the foothills, after that elusive job of which the
Government agent in England had so eloquently expatiated, but which
proved in most cases to be but a fantastic fable. With somewhat of
that pluck which had meant so much to the world, when the “vets” were
something more than mere job hunting tramps, these men from across
the sea trudged in the heat, the dust and the dry alkali-laden air.
Sometimes they were taken on at camp or ranch. More often they were
shunted farther afield. One wondered where they would finally go, these
“boys” from the old land, who had crossed to the Dominion of Canada
with such high hopes in their breasts.

The O Bar O lies midway between Calgary and Banff, in the foothills of
the ranching country. Its white and green buildings grace the top of a
hill that commands a view of the country from all sides.

From the Banff road the fine old ranch presents an imposing sight,
after miles of road through a country where the few habitations are
mainly those melancholy shacks of the first homesteaders of Alberta.

When “Bully Bill,” foreman of the O Bar O, drove his herd of resentful
steers from the green feed in the north pasture, where they had broken
through the four lines of barbed wire, he was shouting and swearing in
a blood-curdling and typically O Bar O fashion, whirling and cracking
his nine feet long bull whip over the heads of the animals, as they
swept before him down to the main gate.

Bully Bill had “herding” down to a science, and “them doegies,” as he
called them, went in a long line before him like an army in review. Had
events followed their natural course, the cattle should have filed out
of the opened gate into the roadway, and across the road to the south
field, where, duly, they would distribute themselves among the hummocks
and coulies that afforded the most likely places for grazing. On this
blistering day, however, Bully Bill’s formula failed. Something on the
wide road had diverted the course of the driven steers. Having gotten
them as far as the road, Bully Bill paused in his vociferous speech and
heady action to take a “chaw” of his favorite plug; but his teeth had
barely sunk into the weed when something caused him to shift it to his
cheek, as with bulging eyes, he sat up erectly upon his horse, and then
moved forward into swift action.

A certain pausing and grouping, a bunching together and lowering of
heads, the ominous movement of a huge roan steer ahead of the herd,
apprised the experienced cowpuncher of the fact that a stampede was
imminent.

As he raced through the gate, Bully Bill perceived the cause of the
revolution of his herd. Directly in the path of the animals was a
strange figure. Not the weary footsore tramp common to the trail. Not
the nervy camper, applying at O Bar O for the usual donation of milk
and eggs. Neither neighbour, nor Indian from Morley. Here was a clean
tweed-clad Englishman, with a grip in his hand. How he had maintained
his miraculous neatness after forty-four miles of tramping all of the
way from Calgary cannot be explained.

Eye to eye he faced that roan steer, whose head sank loweringly, as he
backed and swayed toward that moving mass behind him, all poised and
paused for the charge.

Time was when the Englishman had been in another kind of a charge, but
that is a different story, and France is very far away from Alberta,
Canada.

As the dumbfounded cowpuncher raced wildly in his direction, the man
afoot did a strange thing. Raising on high his grip in his hand, he
flung it directly into the face of the roan steer. In the scattering
and scampering and bellowing that ensued, it was hard to distinguish
anything but dust and a vast, moving blur, as the startled herd,
following the lead of the roan steer, swept headlong down the road,
to where in the canyon below, the Ghost and the Bow Rivers had their
junction.

From the direction of the corrals swept reinforcements, in the shape of
“Hootmon,” a Scot so nicknamed by the outfit, because of his favourite
explosive utterance, and Sandy, son of the O Bar O, red-haired,
freckled-faced and indelibly marked by the sun above, who rode his
Indian bronc with the grace and agility of a circus rider.

Into the roaring mêlée charged the yelling riders. Not with the
“hobo-dude,” lying on the inner side of the barbed-wire fence,
through which he had scrambled with alacrity before the roan steer
had recovered from the onslaught of the grip, were the “hands” of
the ranch concerned. Theirs the job to round up and steady that
panic-stricken herd; to bring order out of chaos; to soothe, to beat,
to drive into a regulation bunch, and safely land the cattle in the
intended south field.

Half an hour later, when the last of the tired herd had passed through
the south gate, when the bellowings had died down and already the
leaders were taking comfort in the succulent green grass on the edges
of a long slough, Bully Bill bethought him of the cause of all this
extra work and delay. He released that plug of tobacco from his left
cheek, spat viciously, and with vengeance in his eye, rode over to
where the intruder still reclined upon the turf. Said turf was hard and
dry, and tormenting flies and grasshoppers and flying ants leaped about
his face and neck; but he lay stretched out full-length upon his back,
staring up at the bright blue sky above him. As Bully Bill rode over,
he slowly and easily raised himself to a sitting posture.

“Hi! you there!” bawled the foreman, in the overbearing voice that had
earned for him his nickname. “What the hell are you squattin’ out here
for? What d’ya mean by stirrin’ up all this hell of a racket? What the
hell d’ya want at O Bar O?”

The stranger smiled up at him, with the sun glinting in his eyes.
His expression was guileless, and the engaging ring of friendliness
and reassurance in his voice caused the irate cowhand to lapse into
a stunned silence, as he gaped at this curious specimen of the human
family on the ground before him.

“Ch-cheerio!” said the visitor. “No harm done. I’m f-first rate, thank
you. Not even scratched. How are you?”

Hootmon applied his spurs to his horse’s flanks, and cantered up the
hill in the direction of the corrals, there to recount to an interested
audience old Bully Bill’s discomfiture and amazement.

Things move slowly in a ranching country, and not every day does the
Lord deposit a whole vaudeville act at the door of a ranch house.

Sandy, seeking to curry favour with the confounded foreman, winked at
him broadly, and then deliberately pricked the rump of the unfortunate
Silver Heels with a pin. Kicking around in a circle, the bronco backed
and bucked in the direction of the man upon the grass, now sitting up
and tenderly examining an evidently bruised shin.

At this juncture, the long-suffering Silver Heels developed an
unexpected will of his own. Shaking himself violently from side to
side, he reared up on his hind legs, and by a dash forward of his
peppery young head, he jerked the reins from the hands of the surprised
lad, who shot into the air and nearly fell into the lap of the
Englishman.

That individual gripped the boy’s arm tightly and swung him neatly to
his side.

“You leggo my arm!”

Sandy squirmed from the surprisingly iron grip of the visitor.

The tramp, as they believed him to be, was now sitting up erectly, with
that sublime, smooth air of cheerful condescension which Canadians so
loathe in an Englishman.

“Cheerio, old man!” said he, and slapped the unwillingly impressed
youngster upon the back. “Not hurt much--what?”

“Hurt--nothing! Whacha take me for?”

Sandy, a product of O Bar O, let forth a typical string of hot cusses,
while the Englishman grinned down upon him.

“What the hell you doin’ sittin’ on our grass?” finished Sandy shrilly.
“What cha want at our ranch?”

“Oh, I say! Is this a rawnch then?”

He turned a questioning eager gaze upon the foreman, who now sat with
right leg resting across the pummel of the saddle, studying their
visitor in puzzled silence. After a moment, having spat and transferred
his plug from the left to the right cheek, Bully Bill replied through
the corner of his mouth.

“You betchour life this ain’t no rawnch. Ain’t no _rawnches_ this side
o’ the river. They _ranch_ on this side.”

The other looked unenlightened, and Bully Bill condescended further
explanation, with a flicker of a wink at the delighted Sandy.

“Yer see, it’s like this. On the south side of the river, there’s a
sight of them English “dooks” and earls and lords and princes. They
play at rawnching, doncherknow. On the north side, we’re the real
cheese. We’re out to raise beef. We _ranch_!”

Having delivered this explanation of things in the cattle country,
Bully Bill, well pleased with himself, dropped his foot back into his
stirrup and saluted the Englishman condescendingly:

“Here’s lookin’ at you!” he said, and gently pressed his heel into his
horse’s side.

“I say----!”

The tramp had sprang to his feet with surprising agility, and his nervy
hand was at the mouth of Bully Bill’s mount.

“I say, old man, will you hold on a bit? I w-wonder now, do you, by any
chance, need help on your ranch? Because if you do, I’d like to apply
for the position. If this is a cattle ranch, I’ll say that I know a
bit about horses. R-r-r-ridden s-some in my time, and I t-took care
of a c-car-load of cattle c-coming up from the east. W-w-worked my
way out here, in fact, and as to w-wages, nominal ones will be quite
satisfactory as a s-starter.”

Bully Bill, his mouth gaped open, was surveying the applicant from head
to foot, his trained eye travelling from the top of the sleekly-brushed
blond hair, the smoothly-shaven cheek, down the still surprisingly
dapper form to the thin shoes that were so painfully inadequate for
the trail. Sandy was doubled up in a knot, howling with fiendish glee.
Bully Bill spat.

“I d-don’t m-mind roughing it at all,” continued the applicant,
wistfully. “D-don’t judge me by my clothes. Fact is, old man, they
happen to be all I’ve g-got, you see. B-but I’m quite c-competent
to----”

Bully Bill said dreamily, looking out into space, and as if thinking
aloud.

“We ain’t as tough as we’re cracked up to be. Of course, they’s one or
two stunts you got to learn on a cattle ranch--rawnch--beggin’ your
pardon----”

“That’s quite all right, old man. Don’t mention it. Is there a chance
then for me?”

There was not a trace of a smile on Bully Bill’s face as he solemnly
looked down into the anxious blue eyes of the applicant.

“They’s the makin’s of a damn fine cowboy in you,” he said.

“I say!”

A smile broke all over the somewhat pinched face of the strange tramp.
That smile was so engaging, so sunny, so boyish that the cowpuncher
returned it with a characteristic grin of his own.

“D-you really mean to say that I’m engaged?”

“You betchu.”

“Thanks awfully, old man,” cried the other cordially, and extended his
white hand, which gripped the horny one of the cowpuncher, at rest on
his leather-clad knee.

Bully Bill rode off at a slow lope, and as he rode, he steadily chewed.
Once or twice he grunted, and once he slapped his leg and made a sound
that was oddly like a hoarse guffaw. In the wake of the loitering
horse, carrying his now sadly-battered grip in his hand, the Englishman
plugged along, and as he came he whistled a cheery strain of music.




CHAPTER II


Sandy made three somersaults of glee on the turf, and at his last
turn-over, his head came into contact with something hard. He rubbed
said head, and at the same time observed that which had pained him.
It was a large, old-fashioned gold locket, studded with rubies and
diamonds.

“Holy Salmon!” ejaculated the highly-elated boy. In an instant he had
seized the bridle of his horse, and was on him. He went up the hill on
a run, and began calling outside the house, while still on horse.

“Hilda! I say, Hilda! Come on out! Looka here what _I_ found!”

A girl, skin bronzed by sun and wind, with chocolate-coloured eyes
and hair and a certain free grace of motion and poise, came on to the
wide verandah. Sandy had ridden his horse clear to the railing, and
now he excitedly held up the trinket in his hand, and then tossed it
to Hilda, who caught it neatly in her own. Turning it over, the girl
examined to find with admiration and curiosity, and, with feminine
intuition, she found the spring and opened the locket. Within, the
lovely, pictured face of a woman in low-cut evening dress, looked back
from the frame. On the opposite side, a lock of dead-gold hair curled
behind the glass.

Sandy had leaped off his horse, and now was excitedly grasping after
the treasure.

“Wher’d you find it, Sandy?”

“Down in the lower pasture. Betchu its his girl! Say, Hilda, he’s a
scream. You’d oughter’ve been there. He came along the road all dolled
up in city clothes, and--look! Oh, my God-frey! Look ut him, Hilda!”

In an ecstasy of derision and delight, Sandy pointed.

Hand shading his eyes, the stranger was gazing across the
wide-spreading panorama of gigantic hills, etched against a sky of
sheerest blue, upon which the everlasting sun glowed.

“By George!” exclaimed the new “hand” of the O Bar O, “what a tophole
view! Never saw anything to beat it. Give you my word, it b-b-beats
S-switzerland. When I was tramping along the road, I th-thought that
was a good one on us at home, ’bout this being the Land of Promise, you
know, b-but now, by George! I’m hanged if I don’t think you’re right.
A chap cannot look across at a view like that and not feel jolly well
uplifted!”

There was a ring of men closing in about the new arrival, for it was
the noon hour, and Hootmon had hurried them along from bunkhouse and
corral. At the stranger’s stream of eloquence to Bully Bill anent the
beauties of nature in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains, “Pink-eyed
Jake” swooned away in the arms of Hootmon. A gale of unbridled laughter
burst from a dozen throats. The men held their sides and leaned forward
the better to scan this new specimen of the human family. Hands on
hips, they “took his number” and pronounced him internally a freak of
nature.

To the door of the cook-car, rolled the immense form of Tom Chum Lee,
the Chinese cook who dominated the grub-car of O Bar O. With a vast
smile of benignant humour directed upon his “boys,” Lee summoned all
hands to chow, by means of a great cow bell, that he waved generously
back and forth.

With immense satisfaction and relish, the newcomer was taking in all of
the colour and atmosphere of the ranch. The fact that he himself was an
object of derisive mirth to the outfit, troubled him not at all.

A skirt--pink--flirted around the side of the house, and outlined
against the blue of the sky, the slim form of a young girl shone on the
steps of the ranch house. The Englishman had a glimpse of wide, dark
eyes, and a generous red mouth, through which gleamed the whitest of
teeth. But it was her voice, with its shrill edge of impudent young
mirth that sent the colour to the pinched cheeks of the new hand of
O Bar O. There was in it, despite its mockery, a haughty accent of
contempt.

“Who’s his royal nibs, Bully Bill?”

Through the corner of his mouth, the foreman enlightened her:

“Vodeyveel show. Things gittin’ kind o’ dull at O Bar. Thought I’d pull
in something to cheer the fellows up a bit, and they’s nothing tickles
them more than turnin’ a green tenderfoot Englishman on to them. This
one here is a circus. When I asked him what the hello--excuse me, Miss
Hilda!--what the hello he was doin’ round here, he ses: ‘Cheerio!’ Say,
if ever there was ‘Kid me’ writ all over a human bein’, it’s splashed
over that there one.”

“Um!”

Hilda came down the steps and approached the newcomer. Head slightly
on one side, she examined him with evident curiosity and amusement.
“Paper-collar dudes,” as the ranch folk called the city people, came
quite often to O Bar O, but this particular specimen seemed somehow
especially green and guileless. A wicked dimple flashed out in the
right cheek of the girl, though her critical eyes were still cold as
she looked the man over from head to foot.

“Hi-yi! You! Where do you hail from?”

As he looked up at the beautiful, saucy young creature before him, the
Englishman was seized with one of his worst spells of stuttering. The
impediment in his speech was slight, on ordinary occasions, but when
unduly moved, and at psychological moments, when the tongue’s office
was the most desired of adjuncts, it generally failed him. Now:

“Bb-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b----”

The girl, hands on hips, swayed back and forth with laughter.

“Haven’t you a tongue even? What are you doing in this wild country,
you poor lost lamb from the fold?”

He had recovered his wits, and the use of his tongue. His heels came
together with a curiously smart and military click, and his blue eyes
looked squarely into the impudent brown ones of the girl, laughing in
his face. With complete gravity, he replied:

“J-just came across to the p-promised land, to try and make a home for
myself and--” he paused, smiling sunnily--“and another, you know.”

“Now wasn’t that the great idea!” guyed the girl, with mock
seriousness. “And who’s the other one, by the way? Another like you? Do
tell us.”

“Her name’s--Nanna, we call her.”

“Nanna! Nanna! What a sweet name!”

She was still mocking, but suddenly swung the locket on its chain
toward him.

“Do you know, I believe we’ve found your long-lost Nanna. I was just
admiring her fair, sweet face inside. Catch her!”

She tossed it across to him. It dropped on the stones between them. He
stooped to pick it up, and anxiously examined it, before turning to
look back at the girl with a slightly stern glance.

“Righto!” he said. “Thanks for returning her to me.”

For some unaccountable reason, the girl’s mood changed. She tossed her
head, as the colour flooded her face. Something wild and free in that
tossing suggested the motion of a young thoroughbred colt. Affecting
great disdain, and as if looking down at him from a height, she
inquired:

“Oh, by the way, what’s your name?”

He absently fished in his vest pocket, and this action provoked a fresh
gale of laughter from the highly edified hands, in which the girl
heartily joined. At the laughter, he looked up, slightly whistled, and
said in his friendly way:

“Cheerio!”

“Cheerio!” repeated the girl. “Some name. Boys, allow me--Cheerio, Duke
of the O Bar O. Escort his grace to the dining-car, and mind you treat
him gentle. And say, boys--” she called after them, “doll him up in O
Bar O duds. Let’s see what he looks like in reglar clothes.”

Shoved along by the men, “his grace” was pushed and hustled into the
cook-car. Here the odour of the hot food, and the rich soup being
slapped into each bowl along the line of plates, almost caused the
hungry Englishman to faint. Nevertheless, he kept what he would have
termed “stiff upper lip,” and as the Chinaman passed down between the
long bench tables, and filled the bowl before the newcomer, Cheerio,
as he was henceforward to be known, controlled the famished longing to
fall to upon that thick, delicious soup, and, smiling instead, turned
to the man on either side of him, with a cigarette case in his hand:

“Have one, old man, do. P-pretty g-good stuff! Got them in France,
you know. Believe I’ll have one myself before starting in, you know.
Topping--what?”




CHAPTER III


P. D. McPherson, or “P. D.” as he was better known throughout
the ranching country, owner of the O Bar O, was noted for his
eccentricities, his scientific experiments with stock and grain, and
for the variety and quality of his vocabulary of “cusses.”

An ex-professor of an Agricultural College, he had come to Alberta in
the early days, before the trails were blazed. While the railroads were
beginning to survey the new country, he had established himself in the
foothills of the Rocky Mountains.

Beginning with a few head of cattle imported from the East, P. D. had
built up his herd until it was famous throughout the cattle world. His
experiments in crossing pure-bred grades of cattle in an attempt to
produce an animal that would give both the beef of the Hereford and the
butterfat and cream of the Holstein, had been followed with unabated
interest.

He had been equally successful with his horses and other stock. Turning
from cattle and stock, P. D. next expended his genius upon the grain.
It was a proud and triumphant day for O Bar O when, at the annual
Calgary Fair, the old rancher showed a single stalk of wheat, on which
were one hundred and fifty kernels.

His alfalfa and rye fields, in a normally dry and hilly part of the
country, were the wonder and amazement of farmers and ranchers.

The Government, the Railways, the Flour mills and the Agricultural
Colleges, sought him out, and made tempting offers to induce him to
yield up to them his secrets.

P. D. stroked his chin, pinched his lower lip, drew his fuzzy eyebrows
together, and shook his fine, shaggy old head. He was not yet satisfied
that his experiments had reached perfection.

He’d “think it over.” He’d “see about it some day, maybe,” and he
“wasn’t so damned cussed sure that it would benefit the world to
produce cheap wheat at the present time. This way out, gentlemen! This
way out!”

He was a rude old man, was P. D. McPherson.

In a way, he was obliged to be so, for otherwise he would have been
enormously imposed on. O Bar O was in the heart of the game and fishing
country, and was, therefore, the mecca of all aspiring hunters and
fishermen, to say nothing of the numerous campers and motor hoboes, who
drove in every day upon the land and left their trail of disorder and
dirt behind, and quite often small or large forest fires, that were
kept under control only by the vigilance of O Bar O.

The ranch was noted for its hospitality, and no tramp or stranger or
rider along the trail had ever been turned from its door. The line,
however, had to be drawn somewhere, and it was drawn in so far as the
idle tourists, pausing en route to Banff or Lake Louise to “beat” a
meal or a pleasant day at the ranch, were concerned, or the numerous
motor hoboes, who, denied at the ranch house their numerous requests
for milk and eggs and gasolene and the privilege of spending the night
there, slipped in under the bridge by the river, and set up their camps
on the banks of the Ghost River.

About the time when his wheat had brought him considerable, but
undesired, fame, P. D., holding his lower lip between thumb and
forefinger, was looking about for new experimental worlds to conquer.
By chance, his motherless son and daughter, then of the impressionable
ages of four and ten respectively, shot under his especial notice,
through the medium of a ride down the bannister and resultant noise.

P. D. studied his offspring appraisingly and thoughtfully, and as he
looked into the grimy, glooming young faces, he conceived another one
of his remarkable “inspirations.”

It was soon after this, that P. D. founded that “School of Nature,”
to which were bidden all of the children of the neighbouring ranch
country, and into which his own progeny were unceremoniously dumped.
However, when the curriculum of this Institution of Learning became
more fully understood, despite the fame of its founder and president,
there were none among the parents of the various children who felt
justified in sending them to the O Bar O School of Nature.

Even the most ignorant among them believed that school existed only
mainly for the purpose of teaching the young minds how to shoot with
reading, writing, spelling and arithmetic.

P. D. proposed only the slightest excursion into these elementary
subjects. Nature, so he declared, addressing the assembled farmers at
a special meeting, was the greatest of all teachers, a book into which
one might look, without turning a single leaf, and learn all that was
necessary for the knowledge of mankind.

He was convinced, so eloquently proclaimed P. D., that school such as
the world knew it, was antiquated in its methods and wholly unnecessary
and wrong. To teach the young the secrets and mysteries of nature--that
alone was needed to produce a race of supermen and women.

One timid little woman arose, and asked what “supermen” meant, and the
huge, rough father of the family of ten replied that it meant “men who
liked their supper.”

The meeting broke up in a riot--so far as P. D. was concerned, and his
neighbours departed with his wrathful imprecations ringing in their
ears.

Not to be daunted by the lack of support afforded him by his
neighbours, P. D. set at once to put his theories into practice upon
his helpless children.

It came to pass that the children of P. D. missed the advantages of the
ordinary modern schools. Had P. D., in fact, carried out his original
curriculum, which he prepared with scientific detail, it is quite
possible that the results might have turned out as satisfactorily as
his experiments with cattle, pigs, sheep and horses. P. D. reckoned
not, however, with the vagaries and impetuosities of youth and human
nature. Unlike dumb stock, he had fiery spirits, active imaginations,
and saucy tongues to deal with. He was not possessed with even the
normal amount of patience desirable in a good teacher. His classes,
therefore, were more often than not punctuated by explosive sounds,
miraculous expletives, indignant outcries, and the ejection or hurried
exit from the room of a smarting, angry-eyed youngster, suffering from
the two-fold lash of parental tongue and hand.

Then when some of his original ideas were just beginning to take
substantial root in their young minds and systems, P. D. fell a victim
to a new and devastating passion, which was destined to hold him in
thrall for the rest of his days.

Chess was his new mistress, alternately his joy and his bane. Even his
children were forgotten in the shuffle of events, and, turned upon
their own resources, they grew up like wild young things, loose on a
great, free range.

If, however, the young McPhersons had missed school, they had learned
much of which the average child of to-day is more or less ignorant.
They knew all of the theories concerned in the formation of this
earth of ours, and the living things upon it. They were intimately
acquainted with every visible and many invisible stars and planets in
the firmament. They had a plausible and a comprehensible explanation
for such phenomena as the milky way, the comets, the northern lights,
the asteroids and other denizens of the miraculous Alberta sky above
them. They knew what the west, the east, the north and the south
winds portended. They could calculate to a nicety the distance of
a thunderstorm. No mean weather prophets were the children of P.
D. McPherson; nor were their diagnosis dependent upon guess-work,
or an aching tooth, or rheumatic knee, or even upon intuition or
superstition, as in the case of the Indian.

Woodlore they knew, and the names and habits of the wild things that
abounded in the woods of O Bar O. Insects, ants, butterflies, bees,
were known by their scientific names. A rainbow, a sunrise, sunset,
the morning mist, fog, the night sun of Alberta, the Japanese current
that brought the Chinook winds over the Rocky Mountains, that changed
the weather from thirty below zero to a tropical warmth in Alberta, the
melting clouds in the skies, the night rainbows--all these were not
merely beautiful phenomena, but the result of natural causes, of which
the McPherson children were able to give an intelligent explanation.

They could ride the range and wield the lariat with the best of the
cowpunchers. Hilda could brand, vaccinate, dehorn, and wean cattle.
She was one of the best brand readers in the country, and she rode a
horse as if she were part of the animal itself. She could leap with the
agility of a circus rider upon the slippery back of a running outlaw,
and, without bridle or saddle, maintain her place upon a jumping,
bucking, kicking, wildly rearing “bronc.”

Untamed and wild as the mavericks that, eluding the lariat of the
cowpuncher, roamed the range unbranded and unbroken, Hilda and Sandy
McPherson came up out of their childhood years, and paused like timid,
curious young creatures of the wild upon the perilous edge of maturity.

Hilda was not without a comprehension of certain things in life that
had been denied her. If her heart was untamed, it was not the less
hungry and ardent. Though she realized that she had missed something
precious and desirable in life, she was possessed with a spartan and
sensitive pride. About her ignorance, she had erected a wall of it.

It was all very well to ride thus freely over the splendid open spaces
and to wend her fearless way through the beckoning woods of the Rocky
Mountain foothills. It was fine to be part of a game which every day
showed the results of labour well done, and to know that such labour
was contributing to the upkeep and value of the world. Yet there were
times when a very wistful expression of wonder and longing would come
into the girl’s dark eyes, and the craving for something other than she
had known would make her heart burn within her.

To appease this heart hunger, Hilda sought a medium through the
reading matter obtainable at O Bar O; but the reading matter consisted
of the Encyclopædia Brittanica, Darwin’s “Origin of the Species,”
several scientific works, and two voluminous works on the subject of
chess.

For a time, the Encyclopædia afforded sufficient material to satisfy
at least her curiosity; but presently a new source was tapped. From
the bunkhouse came dime novels and the banned newspapers, which P. D.
had more than once denounced as “filthy truck fit for the intelligence
of morons only.” Besides these were the _Police Gazette_, two or
three penny dreadfuls, _Hearsts’_, and several lurid novels of the
blood-and-thunder type. This precious reading matter, borrowed or
“swiped” by Sandy and Hilda, while the men were on the range, was
secretly devoured in hayloft and other secure places of retreat, and
made a profound impression upon their eager young minds.




CHAPTER IV


At this time, P. D. McPherson held the title of Champion Chess Player
of Western Canada. He was, however, by no means proud or satisfied with
this honourable title to chess fame.

Western Canada! One could count on the fingers of one hand the number
of real players in the whole of the west. P. D. had played with them
all. He considered it child’s play to have beaten them. P. D. had
issued a challenge not merely to the eastern holders of the title, but
across the line, where went his bid to contest the world’s title with
the Yankee holders of the same.

P. D. dreamed and brooded over the day when he would win in an
international tournament that would include the chess players of
all the nations of the world. Meanwhile, it behooved him to keep in
practice, so that his skill and craft should abate by not a jot or a
tittle.

He had taught his young son and daughter this noble game. Though
good players, they had inherited neither their parent’s craft nor
passion for it. Indeed, they had reason to fear and dislike chess as a
veritable enemy. Many a ranch or barn dance, many a gymkhana, rodeo,
stampede and Indian race; many a trip to Calgary or Banff had been
wiped off Hilda’s pleasure slate, as punishment for a careless move or
inattention when the ancient game was in progress. Many a night the
bitter-hearted Sandy had departed early, supperless, to bed, because of
a boyish trick of wriggling while his father debated in long-drawn-out
study and thought the desirability of such and such a move.

Hilda and Sandy loved their father; yet his departure upon a scouting
expedition on the trail of a prospective chess player filled them
always with a sense of unholy elation and ecstatic freedom.

P. D.’s good or bad humour upon his return to the ranch depended
entirely upon the success or failure of his quest. If success crowned
his pursuit, and his cravings were satisfied, P. D. returned, beaming
with good will upon the world in general and the inhabitants of O Bar
O in particular. On the other hand, should such excursions have proven
fruitless, the old monomaniac came back to his ranch in uncertain and
irascible humour. All hands upon the place then found it expedient and
wise to give him a wide berth, while his unfortunate son and daughter
were reduced to desperate extremities to escape his especial notice and
wrath.

It should not be inferred from the foregoing that P. D. necessarily
neglected his ranching interests. Chess was a periodic malady with him.
The ranch was a permanent institution. O Bar O was the show-place of
the foothills and a matter of pride to the country. The smoothest of
beef, grass-fed steers, topped the market each year, when they went
forth from the ranch not merely to the local stockyards, but to Kansas
City, Montreal, St. Louis, and Chicago, in the latter place to compete
with success with the corn-feds of the U. S. A.

At the fairs, over the country, O Bar O stock carried a majority of
the ribbons, and “Torchy,” a slim, black streak of lightning and fire,
brought undying fame to its owner by going over the bar of the annual
horse-show of Calgary, with Hilda upon his back, the highest peak ever
attained by a horse in Canada.

A berth at O Bar O was coveted by all the riders and cowpunchers of the
country. The fame of the fine old ranch had crossed the line, in fact,
and had brought to the ranch some of the best of the bronco busters and
riders. The outfit could not, in fact, be beaten. The food was of the
best; the bunkhouses modern and clean; the work done in season and in
a rational number of hours per day; the wages were fair; first-class
stock to care for; a square foreman, and a bully boss. What more could
a man wish upon a cattle ranch? Pride permeated to every man-Jack upon
the place. Each sought to stand well in the eyes of P. D., and his
praise was a coveted thing, while his anger was something to escape,
and unlikely to be forgotten.

P. D.’s praise took the form of a resounding, smashing clap upon the
shoulder, a prized assignment, and a bonus at the end of the month.
His anger took the form of an ungodly and most extraordinary string of
blistering and original curses, words being cut in half to slip curses
midway between as the torrent poured from the wrathful P. D.

It may be mentioned in passing that P. D.’s son and his daughter had
inherited and were developing a quaint vocabulary of typical O Bar O
“cusses,” much to their father’s amazement and indignation. Indeed,
the first time P. D.’s attention was directed toward this talent of
his daughter--her voice was raised in shrill damning speech toward a
squawking hen who desired to sit upon a nest of eggs destined for the
house--the old fellow stopped midway in his strut across the barnyard,
overcome with dismay and anger. Every “hand” within sight and sound was
bawled to the presence of the irate parent, and upon them he poured
the vials of his wrath.

“Where in hot hell did my daughter learn such language? You blocketty,
blinketty, gosh darned, sons of cooks and dish-washers have got to
cut out all this damned, cursed, hellish language when my daughter’s
around. D’you hear me?”

And to the foreman!

“Orders to your men, sir, no more damned cursing upon the place!
I’ll have you and your men know that this is O Bar O and not a
G-- D-- swearing camp for a blasted lot of bohunks.”

This, then, was the outfit to which the seemingly guileless Englishman
had become attached.

P. D., his bushy eyebrows twitching over bright old eyes, confirmed the
judgment of the foreman, that “a bite of entertainment won’t come amiss
at O Bar O” in the shape of the English tenderfoot.

“Put him through the ropes, damn it. Get all the fun you want out of
him. Work the blasted hide off him. Make him sweat like hell to earn
his salt. Go as far as you like, but--” and here P. D.’s bushy eyebrows
drew together in an ominous frown, “give the man a damned square deal.
This is O Bar O, and we’ll have no G-- D-- reflections upon the place.”

So the Englishman was “put through the ropes.” Despite his greenness
and seeming innocence, it is possible that he was wider awake than
any of the men who were working their wits to make his days and
nights exciting and uproarious. He played up to his part with seeming
ingenuousness and high good humour. If the hands of O Bar O regarded
him as a clown, a mountebank, a greenhorn, he played greener and
funnier than they had bargained for.

He was given steers to milk. He was assigned the job of “housemaid,
nurse, chambermaid, and waitress” to the house barn stock. He fed
the pigs, and he did the chores of cook-car and bunkhouse. All the
small and mean jobs of the ranch were assigned to the newcomer. He
was constantly despatched upon foolish and piffling errands. For an
indefinite period, he was relegated to the woodpile of the cook-house.
This was a job that the average cowman scorned. The cowpuncher and
ranch rider consider any work not concerned with horse or cattle a
reflection upon their qualities as riders. Cheerio, however, acquired
a genuine fondness for that woodpile. He would chop away with
undiminished cheer and vigour, whistling as he worked, and at the end
of the day, he would sit on a log and contentedly smoke his pipe, as he
surveyed the fruit of his labours with palpable pride and even vanity.

“Boastin’ of how many logs he’d split. Proud as a whole hen. Hell!
you can’t feaze a chap like that. He’d grin if you put’m to breakin’
stones.”

Thus Bully Bill to Holy Smoke, assistant foreman at the O Bar O. “Ho”
as he was known for short, scowled at that reference to breaking
stones, for Ho knew what that meant in another country across the
line. Out of the side of his mouth he shot:

“Why don’t cha set ’im choppin’ real logs if he’s stuck on the job.
Stick ’im in the timber and see if he’ll whistle over his job then.”

So “into the timber” went Cheerio, with strict orders to cut down ten
fifty-feet tall trees per day. He looked squarely into the face of
the assistant foreman, and said: “Righto,” and took the small hand
axe handed him by the solemn-faced Hootmon, whose tongue was in his
cheek, and who doubled over in silent mirth as soon as Cheerio’s back
was turned. But neither Mootmon, nor Ho, nor Bully Bill, nor, for that
matter, old P. D. or his son and daughter, laughed when at the end of
the day Cheerio returned with twelve trees to his credit for the day’s
work. It was, in fact, a matter of considerable wonder and speculation
as to the method employed by the Englishman to achieve those twelve
immense trees through the medium of that small hand axe. Cheerio went
on whistling, kept his own counsel, and was starting off the next
morning upon a similar errand when Bully Bill harkened to another
suggestion of his assistant, and beckoned him to the corrals.

There was a wary-eyed, ominously still, maverick tied to a post, and
him Cheerio was ordered to mount. He said:

“Hello, old man--waiting for me, what?” smiled at the boy holding his
head, and swung up into the saddle.

“Now,” said Bully Bill. “You lookut here. You ride that bronc to hell
and back again, and break ’er cowboy if you have to break your own head
and hide and heart in doing it.”

Then someone untied the halter rope, and the race was on. He was tossed
over and over again clear over the head of the wild maverick, and over
and over again he remounted, to be thrown again by the wildly kicking
bronco. Bruised and sore, with a cut lip and black eye, he pursued,
caught, and again and again mounted, again and again was thrown, to
mount once again, and to stick finally like glue to the horse’s back,
while the hooting, yelling ring of men surrounding the corrals--Hilda
and Sandy upon the railings--yelled themselves hoarse with derisive
comments and directions, and then went wild with amazed delight, when,
still upon the back of a subdued and shivering young outlaw, Cheerio
swept around the corrals. He arose in his stirrups now, himself
cheering lustily, and waving that newly-acquired O Bar O hat like a
boy. Even Hilda begrudged him not the well-earned cheers, though she
stifled back her own with her hand upon her mouth, when she found that
he had observed her, and with eyes kindling with pride, rode by.

He was thumped upon the back, hailed as “a hellufafellow,” and enjoyed
the pronounced favour and patronage of Bully Bill himself, who brought
forth his grimy plug of chewing tobacco, and offered a “chaw” of it to
the Englishman. Cheerio bit into it with relish, nor showed any sign of
the nauseating effects of a weed he preferred in his pipe rather than
his mouth.

As a matter of fact, like most Englishmen of his class, Cheerio was an
excellent rider, though his riding had not been of the sort peculiar
to cowboydom. However, it did not take him long to learn “the hang of
the thing.” He dropped his posting for the easy, cowboy lope, and he
discovered that, while one clung with his knees when on an English
saddle, such an action had painful and exhausting results with a stock
saddle. There really was something to Bully Bill’s simple formula:

“Hell! There ain’t nothin’ to this here ridin’. All you got to do is
throw your leg over his back and--stick!”

His English training, however, stood him in good stead. More than the
foreman at O Bar O noted and appreciated the fact that the newcomer was
as intimate with horses as if they were human brethren.

From this time on, his progress at the ranch was swift, considering the
daily handicaps the men still continued to slip in his way. His courage
and grit won him at least the grudging respect of the men, though, try
as he might, to “pal” with the O Bar O “hands,” his overtures were met
with suspicion.

There is about certain Englishmen, an atmosphere of superiority that
gives offence to men of the newer lands. The “hands” of the O Bar O
realized instinctively that this man belonged to another class and
caste than their own. No one in the outfit was in a mood to be what
he would have considered “patronized.” It was all very well to have a
whale of a good time “guying,” “stringing,” and making the tenderfoot
hop. That was part of the game, but when it came down to “pal-ing” with
a “guy,” who patronized the Ghost River for a daily bath, wielded a
matutinal razor, and had regard for the cleanliness of his underwear
as well as his overwear, that was a different proposition. Undaunted
by continual rebuffs, however, Cheerio pertinaciously and doggedly
continued to cultivate his “mates” of the bunkhouse, and at the end of
the second month he felt that he could call at least four of the men
his friends.

Pink-eyed Jake vehemently and belligerently proclaimed him a
“damfinefellow.” This was after Cheerio had knocked him out in a
bout, in private, after enduring public bulldogging and browbeating.
Hootmon made no bones about expressing his conviction that Cheerio
was a “mon”! Neither he nor Cheerio revealed the fact that the better
part of Cheerio’s first month’s wages was in the coat pocket of the
Scotchman. The latter had a sick wife and a new baby in Calgary. Jim
Hull was unlikely to forget certain painful nights, when all hands in
the bunkhouse snored in blissful indifference to his groans, while
Cheerio had arisen in his “pink piejammies” and rubbed “painkiller” on
the rheumatic left limb.

The foreman by this time had discovered that despite his stammering
tongue and singular ways, this lean and slight young Englishman could
“stand the gaff” of twenty-four hours at a stretch in the saddle, nor
“batted an eyelash” after a forty mile trip and back to Broken Nose
Lake, after a “bunch” of yearling steers, without a moment off his
horse, or a speck of grub till late at night.

His love of nature, his enthusiasm over sunsets and sunrises, the
poetry he insisted upon inditing to the moon and the star-spotted
skies, to the jagged outline of those misty mountains, towering against
the sun-favoured sky, the pen pictures he drew of the men and the
silhouette shadows of ranch buildings and bush; the wild flowers he
carried into the bunkhouse and cherished with water and sun; these
and other “soft” actions, which had at first brought upon him the
amused contempt of the men, slowly won at last their rough respect and
approval.

Came long evenings, when under the mellow beams of the Alberta night
sun, the wide-spreading hills and meadows seemed touched by a golden
spell, and a brooding silence reigned on all sides, then the low murmur
of Cheerio, half humming, half reciting the songs he had written of
home and friends across the sea, tightened something in the throats of
the toughest of the men and brought recollections of their own far-off
homes, so that with suspended pipes they strained forward the better to
catch each half-whispered word of the Englishman.




CHAPTER V


One there was at O Bar O who could not be reconciled to Cheerio.
Hilda intuitively recognized the fact that this stranger on the
ranch belonged to that “upper world” of which she knew vaguely
through the medium of newspapers and tawdry literature emanating from
the bunkhouse. Even the Encyclopædia had furnished the girl with
information concerning kings and princes, lords and dukes, and earls
that abounded in diverse places in the old world. “Bloody parasites,”
her father had named them, “living for generations off the blood
and sweat and toil of the poor, blind underdogs who had not the
intelligence or the ‘sand’ to unseat them from power.”

Her fiery young nature was up in arms at the thought of “that
Englishman’s patronage.” No doubt, thought the proud, hot-headed and
ignorant girl, “he looks down on us as poor Rubes. Well, we’ll show
him a thing or two,” and she urged the men on to torment and make
uneasy the life of Cheerio.

Thorny and suspicious, with her free head toss, so characteristic of
her young, wild nature, her eyes intensely dark, fixed above his head,
or surveying him as from an amused and contemptuous height, Hilda
left no opportunity neglected to show her scorn and contempt for the
newcomer. She could not herself have diagnosed the reason for her
hostility.

Sandy, on the other hand, had slowly but completely capitulated to the
man whose first appearance had so amused him. In Alberta, daylight
lingers, in the summer time, till as late as ten o’clock at night. When
the day’s work was done, Sandy and his new friend, would depart from
the ranch on a hunt that was new to the cattle country. They hunted, in
fact, for fossils, whitened, hardened bones of the original denizens of
the land that had existed before the Rocky Mountains had sprung into
being by some gigantic convulsion of nature.

Zoology was a subject that exercised an uncanny fascination over the
mind of the red-haired boy. P. D. had scarcely begun the instruction
of this alluring subject when chess diverted him, much to the
disappointment and aggravation of his son. Cheerio, however, proved a
mine of information in this particular field. He had actually once been
a member of an archæological expedition to Thibet, from whose bowels
the bones of the oldest man in the world had been dug. Sandy could
have sat by the hour listening to the tales of that expedition and its
remarkable contribution to science. It was an even more enthralling
experience for the youngster, therefore, to personally explore the wild
canyons above the Ghost River, and, with bated excitement, himself
assist in picking out on the gigantic rocks what Cheerio definitely
proved were bones of a dinosaur. These immense reptiles of prehistoric
days were quite common to the Red Deer district, but the new “hand” of
the O Bar O had proven that they were to be found also along the Ghost
River canyons.

Many a time, sitting on the bank of the river, waiting for the wary
trout to bite, the slowly-drawling, seldom-stammering Cheerio, pictured
to the bulging-eyed, open-mouthed youngster, the giant reptiles and
mountainous mammals of prehistoric days. He even drew life-like
pictures upon scraps of paper, which Sandy carefully cherished and
consigned to his treasure drawer. Sandy, at such times, came as near to
touching complete satisfaction with life as was possible.

His defection, in favour of Cheerio, however, was a bitter pill for his
sister to swallow. Argue and squabble, wrangle and fight as the young
McPherson’s had done all of their lives, for they were of a healthy,
pugnacious disposition, they nevertheless had always been first-rate
chums, and in a way, a defensive and offensive alliance to which no
outsider had been permitted more than a look-in. Now “that Englishman”
had come between them, according to Hilda. Sandy evidently preferred
his society to that of his own and only sister. Thus, bitter Hilda.
Sandy upbraided, reproached and sneered at, grouchily allowed that she
could come along too if she wanted to and “didn’t interfere or talk too
much.” Girls, he brutally averred, were a doggone, darned old nuisance,
and always in the way when something real was being done. They were
well enough as ornaments, said Sandy, but the female of the species was
not meant for practical purposes and they ought to know and keep their
place, and if they wouldn’t do it, why they’d be made to.

This was adding insult to injury. It proved beyond question that
someone had been “setting her brother against her,” and Hilda knew who
that someone was. Sandy knew absolutely nothing about the “female of
the species”--that, by the way, was a brand new expression to the young
McPhersons--and Hilda proposed to “teach him a thing or two” about
her much maligned sex. Also she would “spite that Englishman” who had
influenced her brother against her, by imposing her unwanted society
upon the explorers.

Each evening, therefore, Hilda was on hand, and she arose before dawn
of a Sunday morning--a time when all hands on the ranch were accustomed
to sleep in late--to ride out with them under the grey-gold skies, with
the air fresh and sparkling, and such a stillness on all sides that one
felt loth to break it by even a murmur.

She rode somewhat behind the “bone enthusiasts,” disdaining to ride
abreast with them, or to join in the unintelligible conversation that
presently would begin. No brush was too thick to hold back this girl
of the ranching country; no trail too intricate or tortuous. Foot
wide ledges, over precipices three and four hundred feet above the
river daunted her not. Hilda held her careless seat on the back of
her surefooted and fleet young Indian pony, and if the path crumbled
away in places too perilous for even a foothill horse to pass, Hilda
dismounted and led him, breaking a trail herself through dense timber
land.

True, bones, whether of prehistoric man or mammal, had no actual
interest for the living girl. Sandy’s passion for such things indeed
puzzled and troubled her, inasmuch as she was unable to share it with
him. It was strangely sweet and pleasant, none the less, to ride out
in the quiet dawn or in the evening when the skies were bronzed and
reddened by the still lingering sun. With every day, they found new
trails, new byways, new depressions in the wild woods of O Bar O.

On these excursions Sandy monopolized the conversation and, in a
measure, Hilda was ignored. Cheerio’s concern in her behalf when first
they had penetrated into difficult woods and his offer to lead her
horse had met with haughty and bitter rebuff. Hilda, indeed, rudely
suggested that she was better able to care for herself than he was.
Also she said:

“Don’t bother about me. Ride on with Sandy. I like to ride alone, and I
don’t care for conversation when I ride.”

Sandy more than made up for his sister’s conversational deficiency.
He was a human interrogation point, and his hunger for knowledge in
matters anent man and beast of ancient days was unquenchable.

Hilda, riding a few paces behind, would listen to the endless
questions popped by the eager boy, and secretly marvel at the always
comprehensible replies of his companion. Sometimes she was tempted to
join in the discussions; but her opinions were never solicited by her
brother or Cheerio. As the two rode on, apparently oblivious of her
very existence, Hilda was torn with mixed emotions. She had scornfully
advised Cheerio not to bother her; nevertheless, she was indignant at
thus being ignored. “I might just as well be an old pack pony,” she
thought wrathfully. “I don’t know why I come along anyway. However, I’m
not going to turn back for that Englishman. Not if I know it.”

Cheerio, on the other hand, was not insensible to that small, uplifted
chin and the disdainful glance of the dark eyes that seemed to harden
when they glanced in his direction. He was not versed in the ways of
a woman, or it may be that Hilda’s treatment of him would not have
wounded him so sorely. Cheerio was not stupid; but he was singularly
dense in certain matters. He pondered much over the matter of how he
could possibly have offended the girl, and the thought that she very
evidently disliked him was hard to bear. That cut deep.

Many a night, pipe in mouth, upon the steps of the bunkhouse, Cheerio
would debate the matter within himself. Why did Hilda dislike him? What
was there about him that should arouse her especial scorn and contempt?
Why should her eyes harden and her whole personality seem to stiffen
at his approach? Almost it seemed as if the girl armoured herself
against him. He could find no answer to his questions, and his troubled
meditations would end with the dumping of his pipe, as he shook his
head again in the puzzle of womanhood, and ruefully turned in for the
night. Sometimes he would lie awake for hours, and wholly against his
will the vision of her small, dark face, with its scarlet lips and
deep brown eyes accompanied him into the world of sleep.

About this time, he began to draw sketches of Hilda. He made them at
odd moments; at the noon hour, when he scratched them on the backs
of envelopes, slips of paper, a bit of cardboard torn from a box.
Presently parcels were brought by an Indian on horseback from the
Morley Trading Store, and after that Cheerio began to paint the face
of the girl whom he believed hated him. It is true that his model sat
not for him. Yet she was drawn from life, for his memory drew her back
as faithfully as though they were standing face to face. This was all
secret work, done in secret places, and packed away in the locked
portfolio, which was in that battered grip. Drawing and painting in
this way was not at all satisfactory to the artist, who felt that he
was not doing Hilda justice. His need of a place, where he might work,
undisturbed, was keenly felt by him. Cheerio, as before mentioned,
was the one “hand” at the ranch who daily visited the Ghost River for
bathing purposes. He would arise an hour before the other men and was
off on horse to the river, returning fresh and clean for breakfast
and the long day’s work. His explorations with Sandy and these daily
expeditions to the river had made him very well acquainted with the
Ghost River canyon. One day, scanning thoughtfully the rockbound
river, he perceived what appeared to be a declivity in the side of
a giant rock that jutted out several feet above the river. Out of
curiosity, Cheerio climbed up the cliff, and discovered a small cave,
part of which was so cleft that the light poured through. His first
thought was of Sandy, and the fun the boy would have exploring through
what was evidently a considerable tunnel. His next thought was that
on account of the nature of the earth, this might prove a dangerous
and hazardous undertaking for an adventurous youngster. Suddenly an
inspiration flashed over Cheerio. Here was the ideal studio. Not in
the tunnel, on whose ledge he could very well keep his work, but in
that round natural chamber near the opening, when the north light was
husbanded. It did not take him long to bring his drawing and painting
paraphernalia to his “studio,” and after a few days he fashioned a
rude sort of easel for himself. Here on a Sunday Cheerio worked, and
during that day of rest the ranch saw him not. He would carry his
lunch with him, and depart for the day, much to the bewilderment of
Hilda and the disappointment of Sandy, unwilling to abandon the Sunday
morning exploration trips. The cave was so situated that his privacy
was complete, and anyone coming along the top of the canyon or even
down the river itself could not have seen the man in the cave a few
feet above, quietly smoking and drawing those impressionistic pictures
of the ranch, the Indians, the cowboys, P. D., the overall-clad Sandy
and Hilda. Hilda on horse, flying like the wind at the head of the
cowboys; Hilda, loping slowly along the trail, with her head dropped
in a day dream, that brought somehow a singularly wistful and touching
expression of longing to the lovely young face; Hilda with hand on
hip, head tossed up, defiant, impudent, fascinating; Hilda’s head, with
its crown of chocolate-coloured hair and the darker eyes, the curiously
dusky red that seemed burned by the sun into her cheeks, and the lips
that were so vividly alive and scarlet.

Of all his subjects, she alone he drew from memory. He had found no
difficulty in inducing his other subjects to “pose” for him. Even
P. D. with old pipe twisted in the corner of his mouth had made no
demur when Cheerio, pad and pencil in hand, seated on the steps of
the ranch-house rapidly sketched his employer. The Indians were a
never-failing source of inspiration to the artist. The chubby babies,
the child mothers, the tawny braves, the ragged, old, shuffling women;
Indian colours--magentas, yellows, orange, scarlet, cerise. They
furnished subjects for the artist that made his paintings seem fairly
to blaze with light, and later were to win for him well-deserved fame
and monetary reward. Cheerio would take these miniature sketches to
his studio, and there enlarge them. Hilda, however, whom above all
things in the world, he desired to paint, somehow eluded him. No matter
how lifelike or well-drawn his pictures of this girl, they never wholly
satisfied him. Indeed it was not one of his drawings, but a little
kodak picture of her, acquired from Sandy, that found its way into the
ancient locket, where previously had been the picture of the woman with
the long sleepy eyes and dead-gold hair.




CHAPTER VI


Purely by accident, the wall of reserve that Hilda had reared between
herself and Cheerio was, for the nonce at least, removed. Sandy had
desired to go over a certain cliff, incredibly steep and slippery and
four hundred feet above the river. Now Sandy could climb up and down
places with the agility and sureness of a mountain goat, but even a
mountain goat would have hesitated to go over the side of that cliff.

Hilda came out of her absent trance with a start, as she realized the
intention of the daring and reckless youngster. Over an out-jutting
rock Sandy was poised.

“Sandy McPherson! You cut out that darned nonsense. You can’t go down
there. It’s too doggone steep.”

“Guess I can if I want to,” retorted the boy, looking over the perilous
edge and scrutinizing the grade for any possible root or tree stump
upon which he might grasp in an emergency. “Say,” his head jerked
sideways toward Cheerio, who had dismounted himself to investigate the
situation. “Will you look after Silver Heels till I get back? ’Tain’t
safe for _him_ to go over, but I’ll be Jake.”

“Sandy! You come back! Dad said the earth wasn’t safe under those rocks
there, and any minute one of ’em might roll over. That rock’s moving
now! Sandy! Oh, stop him! D-d-don’t let--him! _Please!_”

She had appealed to Cheerio. It was the first request she had ever made
of him. Instantly he grasped the arm of her brother.

“Come on, old man. There’s a prospect over yonder that looks a jolly
sight better than down there.”

“Aw, girls give me a pain,” declared the disgusted Sandy. “What do they
want to come spyin’ along for anyway, and throwin’ fits about nothin’.
What do they know about dinosauruses or anything else, I’d like to
know?”

“On you go, old man!”

He had hoisted the grumbling boy upon his horse. Sandy raced angrily
ahead. Cheerio looked at Hilda with the expectant boyish smile of one
hoping for reward. He had “taken her part.” Thanks were his due. Thanks
indeed he did not get. Hilda’s glance met his own only for a moment and
then she said, while the deep colour flooded all of her face and neck:

“Now you can see for yourself what your fool expeditions might lead
to. Sandy’s the only brother I have in the world, and first thing you
know he’ll be going over one of those cliffs and then--then--you’ll be
entirely to blame.”

Discomfited, Cheerio lost the use of his tongue. After a moment he
inquired, somewhat dejectedly:

“Sh-shall we c-c-c-call them off then?”

Hilda was unprepared for this. Though she would not have admitted it to
herself for anything in the world, those evening rides were becoming
the most important events in her life. Indeed, she found herself
looking forward to and thinking of them all day. Faced now with the
possibility of their being ended, she said hurriedly and with a slight
catching of her breath that made Cheerio look at her with an odd fixity
of expression:

“No, no--of course not. I wouldn’t want to disappoint my brother, b-but
I can’t trust that boy alone. I’ve always taken care of Sandy. That’s
why I come along. Sandy’s just a little boy, you know.”

How that “little boy” would have snarled with wrath at his sister’s
designation! Even Cheerio’s eyes twinkled, and Hilda, to cover up her
own embarrassment, hastily pressed her heel into her horse’s flank, and
for the first time she suffered him to ride along beside her.

It was intensely still and a dim golden haze lay like a dream over all
the sky and the land, merging them into one. Into this glow rode the
girl of the ranching country and the man from the old land across the
sea. The air was balmy and full of the essence of summer. There was
the sweet odour of recently-cut hay and green feed and a suave wind
whispered and fragrantly fanned the perfumed air about them. They came
out of the woods directly into the hay lands and passed through fields
of thick oats already turning golden. A strange new emotion, a feeling
that pained by its very sweetness was slowly growing into being in the
untutored heart of the girl of the foothills. Glancing sideways at the
man’s fine, clean-cut profile, his gaze bent straight ahead, Hilda
caught her breath with a sudden fear of she knew not what. Why was it,
she asked herself passionately, that she was unable to speak to this
man as to other men? Why could she scarcely meet his clear, straight
glance, which seemed always to question her own so wistfully? What
was the matter with her and with him that his mere presence near her
moved her so strangely? Why was she riding alone with him now in this
strange, electrical silence? As the troubled questions came tumbling
over one another through the girl’s mind, Cheerio suddenly turned in
his saddle and directly sought her gaze. A wonderful, a winning smile,
which made Hilda think of the sunshine about them, broke over the man’s
face. She was conscious of the terrifying fact that that smile awoke in
her breast tumultuous alarms and clamours. She feared it more than a
hostile glance. Feared the very friendly and winning quality of it.

Impetuously the girl dug her little spurred heels into her horse’s
flanks and rode swiftly ahead.

It was nearly ten o’clock, yet the skies were incredibly bright and
in the west above the wide range of mountains, shone the splendour
of a late sunset, red, gold, purple, magenta and blue. All of the
country seemed tinted by the reflected glow of the night sun. Hilda,
riding breathlessly along, had the sense of one in a race, running to
escape that which was pursuing her. On and on, neck and neck with the
galloping horse beside her, and feeling its rider’s gaze still bent
solely upon her.

Presently there was a slackening of the running speed; gradually the
galloping turned to the shorter trot. Daisy and Jim Crow, panting from
the long race, slowed down to a lope. Some of the fever had run out of
Hilda’s blood and she had recovered her composure.

Silence for a long interval, while they rode steadily on into the
immense sun glow. Then:

“R-ripping, isn’t it?” said the man, softly.

“Meaning what?” demanded the girl, angry with herself that her voice
was tremulous.

Almost they seemed to be riding into the sky itself. Sky and earth had
the curious phenomenon of being one.

“Everything,” he replied, with an eloquent motion of his hand. “It’s a
r-ripping--land! I’m jolly glad I came.”

“I don’t suppose,” said Hilda, “that you have skies like this in
England.”

“Hardly.”

“It’s foggy and dark there, I’ve heard,” said Hilda.

He glanced at her, as if slightly surprised.

“Why no, that hardly describes it, you know.”

He was thoughtful a moment, and then said, with a smile, as if glad to
reassure her:

“It’s a dashed fine place, all the same. C-carn’t beat it, you know.”

That brought the girl’s chin up. For some reason, she could not have
analyzed, it hurt and offended her to hear him praising the land from
which he had come.

“Hm! I wonder why Englishmen who think so darned much of their own old
land bother to come to wild outlandish places like Canada.”

If she had expected him to deny that Canada was wild and outlandish she
was to be disappointed, for he replied eagerly:

“Oh, by Jove! th-that’s wh-why we like it, you know. It’s--it’s
exhilarating--the difference--the change from things over there. One
gets in a rut in the old land and travel is our only antidote.”

Hilda had never travelled. She had never been outside the Province of
Alberta. Calgary and Banff were the only cities Hilda had ever been in.
She was conscious now of a sense of extreme bitterness and pain. Like
some young wounded creature who strikes out blindly when hurt, Hilda
said:

“Look here, Mr.----er----Whatever your name is, if you Englishmen just
come out to Canada out of curiosity and to----”

“But, my dear child, Canada is part of us! We’re all one family. I’m at
home here.”

“No, you’re not. You’re a fish out of water.”

“I s-say----”

“And look here, I don’t let anyone call me ‘dear child.’ I won’t be
patronized by you or anyone like you. I’m not a child anyway. I’m
eighteen and that’s being of age, if you want to know.”

He could not restrain the smile that came despite himself at this
childish statement. Hilda’s face darkened, and her eyelids were
smarting with the angry tears that, much to her indignation, seemed to
be trying to force their way through. She said roughly, in an effort to
hide the impending storm:

“Anyway you can’t tell me that there is anything whatsoever in England
to compare with--that--for instance.”

Her quirt made an eloquent motion toward the west, along the complete
horizon of which the long line of jagged peaks were silhouetted against
the gilded skies.

“Righto!” said the man, softly and then after a pause he added almost
gently, and as if he were recalling something to memory: “But I doubt
if there’s anything rarer than our English country lanes--lawns--fine
old places--the streams--but you must see it all some day.”

When he spoke, when he looked like that, with the faraway absent
expression in his eyes. Hilda had a passionate sense of rebellion and
resentment. For some reason she could not have explained she begrudged
him his thought of England. It tormented her to think that the man
beside her was homesick. Her quirt flicked above Daisy’s neck. A short
swift gallop and back again to the lope of the cow ponies. The ride had
whipped the colour into her cheeks and brought back the fire to her
eyes. She was ready now with the burning questions that for days she
had ached to have answered.

“If England’s such a remarkable place, why do you come to Canada to
make a home for this--what was her name, did you say?”

“Her name? Oh, I see--you mean--Nanna.”

He said the name softly, almost tenderly, and Hilda’s breath came and
went with the sudden surge of unreasonable fury that swept over her. He
answered her lightly, deliberately begging the question.

“Why not? This is the p-p-promised land!”

“Are you making fun of Canada?” she demanded imperiously.

“No--never. I s-said that quite seriously.”

She shot her next question roughly. She was determined to know the
exact relationship of this Nanna to the man beside her. Undoubtedly she
was the woman of the locket, whose fair, lovely face Hilda was seeing
in imagination too often these days for her peace of mind.

“Is she your sister?”

“Oh, no. No relation whatever. At least, no blood relation.”

“I see. I sup-pose you think her very--pretty?”

“Lovely,” said Cheerio. Something had leaped into his eyes--something
bright and eager. He leaned toward Hilda with the impulse to confide
in her, but the look on the girl’s face repelled him, so that he drew
back confounded and puzzled. Hilda set her little white teeth tightly
together, put up her nose, and, with a toss of her head, said:

“For goodness sakes, let’s get home. Hi, Daisy! get a wiggle on you,
you old poke.”

She was off on the last lap of the journey.

In her room, she faced herself in the wide mirror and revealed a
remarkable circumstance so far as she was concerned. Tears, bitter and
scorching, were running down her face. Clinching her hands, she said to
the tear-stained vision in the mirror:

“It’s just because I hate him so! Oh, how I hate him. I never knew
anyone in all the days of my life that I hated so much before and I’d
give anything on earth if only I could just _hurt_ him!”

Hurt him she did, for the following evening when he brought her horse,
saddled and ready for her, to the front of the ranch house, Hilda, in
the swinging couch on the verandah apparently deeply absorbed in a
dictionary, looked up coolly, and inquired what the hell he was doing
with her horse.

“Wh-why I th-th-thought you would be coming with us as usual,” said the
surprised Cheerio.

“No thank you, and I’m quite able to saddle my own horse when I want
to go,” said Hilda, and returned to a deep perusal of the dictionary.
But the crestfallen and puzzled Cheerio did not see her, as on tiptoe,
she stole around the side of the house, to catch a last glimpse of him
as he rode out with Sandy beside him. Her cheeks were hot and her eyes
humid with undropped tears as over the still evening air her brother’s
shrill young voice floated:

“Hilda not coming! Gee! we’re in _luck_! _Now_ we can go over the
cliff!”

Hilda didn’t care just then whether that brother of hers went over the
cliff or not. She felt forsaken, bitter, ill-used and extremely unhappy
and forlorn. But she had had her last ride in the magical evenings on a
dinosaur quest.




CHAPTER VII


“Say, Hilda, guess what I found to-day? I didn’t reckernize it at
first until he said it was his. Viper rooted it up right under his
window outside the bunkhouse. Well, I found that picture of his girl
that he keeps in that locket. It must’ve slipped out, and Viper nearly
chewed it up. So I yipped to him to come on out and I give it up to
him and I says: ‘Whose her nibs anyway,’ and he says: ‘Someone I used
to know,’ and I says: ‘Don’t you know her still?’ and he says: ‘Oh,
yes, oh, yes,’ and he was lookin’ just as if he wasn’t hearin’ a word
I was saying and he says as if he was talking to himself; ‘She was
to have been my wife, you know.’ Just like that. Then he got up and
he looked kind of queer, and he went on inside and come on out again
with that locket in his hand and he sits down beside me on the steps
and smokes without saying a word. So then I said, just to kid him:
‘Say, I’ll give you two of my buffalow skulls for that bit of dinky
tin,’ meaning the locket, and he dumps his pipe and gives me the laugh
and he says: ‘Nothing doing, old man. The sweetest girl in the world
is enshined’--that’s what he said--‘right inside that “dinky bit of
tin”!’”




CHAPTER VIII


Sitting in the sunlight on the wide steps of the ranch house, chin
cupped in her hands, her glance far off across the mountain tops, her
thoughts wandering over the seas that stretched between the Dominion
of Canada and the Mother-land, Hilda McPherson came out of her deep
reverie to find the object of her thoughts standing before her. He had
a book in his hand and with the sunny, engaging almost boyish smile
that was characteristic of him he was tendering it to the girl on the
steps.

For some days Cheerio’s discourse on mastodons, dinosaurs and the
various species of the prehistoric days had been extremely vague
and unsatisfactory to his disciple. Matters reached a climax upon
this especial Sunday, when he had wandered from the matter of a
fossil skeleton recently discovered on the Red Deer River, said to
be one hundred and sixty feet long and at least seventy feet tall,
with a sudden question that brought a snort of disgust from the
intensely-interested Sandy.

“What’s _she_ got to do with the Mezzozoic age?” he exploded.

(Note: Cheerio had digressed from the absorbing matter of the age of
the Red Deer dinosaurs, to ask suddenly whether Hilda was likely to
be riding with a certain bachelor rancher whose bronco was tied to
the front of the ranch house when the reluctant Cheerio and Sandy had
ridden away that morning.)

“I s-s-suppose,” stuttered Cheerio, “that your s-s-sister w-w-will
probably be riding with her caller at the r-r-ranch.”

Sandy’s reply was neither enlightening nor respectful. He glimpsed
his friend with the shrewd unflattering scrutiny of a wise one, and
presently:

“Say, you don’t mean to tell me that _you’re_ gettin’ stuck on her too!”

That was a disturbing question, and moreover a revealing one. It
plainly disclosed to the upset Cheerio that there were others “stuck
on” Hilda. In fact, Sandy left no room for doubt as to that.

“Holy Hens!” went on Hilda’s brother. “Half the guys in this country’s
got a case on _her_! I don’t know what they see in her. Should think
_you’d_ have more common sense than to pile along in too.”

“Hilda’s eyes,” said the Englishman softly, “are as b-brown as loamy
soil. They’re like the dark earth, warm and rich and full of promise.”

“Oh, my God--frey!” groaned Sandy and rolled clear down the grassy
slope on which they had been sitting to the more intelligent and
sane company of Viper, a yellow and unlovely cur who was, however,
the private and personal property of Sandy. Viper was at that moment
“snooping” above a gopher hole. One intelligent eye and ear cocked
up warily, signalled with canine telepathy to his master and pal the
warning:

“Careful! She’s under there! Don’t let on you and me are above her.
I’ll get her for you. You’ll have another tail for your collection.
Don’t forget there’s a gymkhana over at the Minnehaha ranch next month
and the prize for the most gopher tails is five plunks.”

To this unspoken but perfectly comprehensible message, Sandy replied:

“Betchu we get his tail, Viper! Betchu I take the prize this year! I
got seventy-five now. Make it seventy-six, Viper, and I’ll give you
eight bones for dinner to-night.”

Cheerio, meanwhile, ruminating painfully upon Sandy’s revelation,
and also upon that bronco tied to front of the ranch house, and its
good-looking owner who was inside, unable to endure the picture his
mind conjured of Hilda riding off with her caller into their own (his
and Hilda’s) especial sun glow, jumped in a hurry upon Jim Crow’s back,
and with the best of intentions sped back to O Bar O.

It was Sunday afternoon, and such of the ranch hands as were not off
on some courting or hunting or fishing or riding expedition, were
stretched out on the various cots that lined the long bunkhouse taking
their weekly siesta. Cheerio himself was accustomed to spend his
Sundays in his cave studio, but in these latter days--since in fact
Hilda had ceased to ride with them in the evenings--even the painting
had lost its charm for him. He spent his Sundays in the near vicinity
of the ranch house, his hopeful eyes pinned upon that wide verandah on
to which the girl now so seldom came.

Occasionally, as on this Sunday, Sandy would induce him into short
excursions from the ranch, but Cheerio was restless and unsettled now,
and far from being the satisfactory companion and oracle upon whom
Sandy had depended.

Now as Cheerio paused at the bunkhouse, he turned over in his mind
such small treasures as he possessed. He had a most ardent desire to
endow Hilda with one or all of his possessions. He was obsessed with
a longing to lay his hands upon certain treasures of a great house
that should have been his own. His possessions at the ranch were
modest enough. His wages had been spent mainly for paint and books. He
surveyed the crude, but adequate, book-case he had built himself, and
scanned the volumes laid upon the shelves. After all, one could offer
no finer gift than a book. He chose carefully, with a thought rather
for what might appeal especially to a girl of Hilda’s type than his own
preferences.

As he came around the side of the house, he perceived that the bronco
was gone. A momentary heartshake over the thought that Hilda might have
gone with it, and then a great thumping of that sensitive organ as he
saw the girl upon the steps. She was sitting in the sunlight, staring
out before her in a day dream. Something in the mute droop of the
expressive young mouth and the slight shadow cast by the lashes against
her cheek gave Hilda a look of singular sadness and depression and
sent her caller impetuously hurrying toward her. He had come, in fact,
directly in front of her, before the eyes were lifted and Hilda looked
back at him. Slowly the colour swept like the dawn over her young face,
as he extended the book, stammering and blushing in his boyish way.

“M-m-m-miss Hilda, I r-r-recommend this f-for b-b-both pleasure and
information. It’s p-p-part of one’s education to read Dumas.”

Education! The word was inflammatory. It was an affront to her pride.
He was rubbing in the fact of her appalling ignorance. That was her
own affair--her own misfortune. Hilda sprang to her feet, up in arms,
on the defensive and the offensive. While the astonished Cheerio still
extended the book--a silent peace offering--Hilda’s dark head tossed
up, in that characteristic motion, while her foot stamped the ground.

“I don’t care for that kind of rot, thank you. My dad’s right. It’s
better to be real people in the world rather than fake folk in a book.”

Again the head toss and the blaze of angry wide eyes; then, swift as a
fawn, Hilda sped across the verandah and the ranch house door banged
hard.

Thus might have ended the Dumas incident, but on the following day,
when the men were all out on the range, she who had spurned “The Three
Musketeers” slipped out of the ranch house, over to the grove of trees
to the east and running behind the shelter of these, so that Chum Lee
should not see her as she passed, made her way swiftly to the bunkhouse.

Bunkhouses in a ranching country are not savoury or attractive places
as a general rule. This of the O Bar O was “not too bad” as the
expression goes in Alberta. It had the virtue at all events of being
clean, thanks to the assiduous care of Chum Lee. Moreover, shiftless
and dirty fellows found a short job at O Bar O. Hats and caps, hide
shirts, buckskin breeks, chaps and coats were all, therefore, neatly
hung along the wall on the row of deer horns, while under these were
piled on the long shelf the puttees, boots and other gear of the riders.

The bunkhouse was lavishly decorated, the entire walls being covered
with pictures cut from magazines or newspapers or from other sources
and pasted or tacked upon the wall. Ladies in skin tights of rounded
and ample curves, in poses calculated to attract the attention of the
opposite sex, ravishing beauties, all more or less with that stage
smile in which all of the dental equipment of their owners, alluringly
displayed, beamed down above the beds of the riders of O Bar O. Hilda
had seen these often before and they had no especial interest for her.
Her glance travelled instead to the long table on which was piled the
treasured possessions of the men, correspondence boxes, tobacco, pipes,
jack-knives, quirts, gloves, letters and photographs of friends and
relatives. Nothing on that table would likely belong to him. Nothing
suggested Cheerio. Her eye went slowly down the row of beds till it
came to rest upon that one pulled out from the wall till the head was
thrust directly under the widely opened window, by the side of which
stood the crude book-case and stand. She paused only a moment and then
swiftly crossed to the Englishman’s bed.

Three of the shelves were filled tightly with books and the bottom one
held a writing folio and sketch tablet. This Hilda seized upon, but
stopped before opening it, while the colour receded from her cheeks.
Within that folio, perhaps, would be found some clue, some letter from
the woman he loved. Yes, Hilda faced the fact that Cheerio loved the
woman whose pictured face was in the locket, and for whom he had come
to Canada to make a home. As she held the folio in her hand, she felt
a passionate impulse of shame that fought her natural curiosity, and
caused her to put the thing back upon the shelf. No! She had not come
to the bunkhouse to spy into a man’s correspondence. It was only that
she suffered from an unconquerable hunger merely again to see the other
woman’s face; to study it, to compare it with her own--Oh! to destroy
it! But no, no--she would not stoop so low as to look at something
which he did not wish her to see.

The book was a different matter. He had offered it to her. It was
therefore really her own. Thus argued Hilda within herself. A quick
search along the shelves and she had picked out the volume she sought.
It was marked number one in the row of books by Alexandre Dumas.
Thrusting it under her cape, Hilda hurried to the door, and once again
like a scared child who has been stealing apples, she slipped behind
the sheltering bushes, came from behind them into the open and sped
across the yard to the house.

All of that morning, Hilda McPherson was dead to the world. Lying on
the great fragrant heap in the hay loft, she lost herself in the meshes
of one of the most entrancing romances that has ever been penned by the
hand of man. She emerged from her retreat at the dinner hour, brought
back to earth by the arrival of the “hands” in the barn below. It was
haying time and the men came in from the fields for their noon meal.
Certain of the horses were changed and relieved and brought to the
stables for especial feeding. Hiding her precious book under a pile of
hay in a corner of the loft, Hilda descended, and still under the spell
of the book she had been reading all morning, made her way to the house.

It so happened, that in her absorption, she had paid little attention
to Sandy’s dog, who leaped up at her as she passed, capered around her,
sought to lick her hands and otherwise ingratiate himself. Absently
Hilda ordered him down.

“That will do, Viper! Now cut it out! Get away! Get away! Shoooo-o-o!
Bad dog! Down!”

Duly admonished, spirits but slightly dampened, Viper repaired to
the barn, where for a spell, with his tongue hanging out and panting
from recent long runs across the land after his master on horse, he
endeavoured to attract the attention of such hands as were still in the
barn by an occasional yelp and a moan of protest when at last the doors
were shut upon him.

For a little while Viper rested in one of the stalls; then being young
and of an active disposition he arose and stretched himself and looked
about him for diversion. In the natural course of events, having tired
of chasing the various hens from the stalls and vainly snapping at
persistent fleas, he sniffed along the trail over which his young
mistress (he regarded her as such) had passed. In due time, therefore,
Viper arrived in the loft. Also in the natural course of events, he
nosed around and dug under the hay, disclosing the hidden book. He
carried this treasure below in his mouth, and was having quite a jolly
time with it, growling and barking and shaking it and alternatively
letting it go and then pouncing upon it, when he was interrupted by a
well-known and much-beloved and sometimes feared whistle. Joyously,
proudly, triumphantly Viper brought his find to his master, and with
the pride of a new mother, laid it at Sandy’s feet. Wagging his tail
furiously and emitting short, sharp yelps which spoke as eloquently as
mere words the dog’s demand for well-earned praise, he was rewarded
from various pockets of Sandy’s overalls. The prizes consisted of bones
and other edibles “swiped” from the kitchen through which Sandy had
passed like a streak en route to join his dog in the barn.

Sandy now squinted appraisingly over the printed lines of that
now ragged volume. Presently his attention was drawn to one living
line that flashed from the page with the swift play of the sword of
D’Artagnan. Sandy’s mouth gaped, and his gaze grew intent. Presently,
still reading, he retired from the barn, and, followed by Viper,
climbed aboard a huge hay wagon that stood beneath the open window of
the big loft.

All of that afternoon Hilda McPherson searched in vain for “The Three
Musketeers.” The mystery of its disappearance from the loft tormented
her, for she had reached a portion of the tale that had to be finished.
What had become of Porthos when--Hilda felt that she had to know the
sequel of that especial episode “or bust” with unsatisfied curiosity.
The story had seized upon her imagination.

The blazing sunlight of the July afternoon was softening and the
mellow tone that would presently settle into the misty gleam of the
reluctantly-ending day was beginning to tint the land, when Hilda
looked forth from the hay loft window and perceived something directly
below her that was brick red in colour. It stuck out from a loaded hay
wagon. His dog curled beside him, half buried in the deep hay, book
propped before him, Sandy, as his sister had done, had dropped out of
this world of ours and was soaring into realms of another time.

Hilda’s eyes widened with amazement and righteous indignation. A
moment of pause only, poised on the window sill of the loft. Then down
she dropped squarely into the lap of the great hay wagon. There was
the smothered sound of murmuring and scrambling under the hay; the
delighted bark of the entertained dog, uncertain whether this was a
contest or a game, and then two heads, plentifully besprinkled with
straw and hay arose to the surface and two wrathful, angry faces glared
across at each other.

“That’s mine!”

“It ain’t!”

“It is, I say. I had it first.”

“Don’t care if you did. Viper found it.”

“That cur stole it. I hid it in the loft. You give it up to me, do you
hear me?”

“Yeeh, don’t you see me givin’ it up. My dog found it for me, and
finding’s keepings, see?”

“Sandy, you give me that book, or you’ll be sorry. It’s mine.”

“Prove it then.”

A tussle, a tug, a tremendous pull; back and forth, a fierce wrestle;
a scramble and sprawl over the hay; a whoop of triumph from Hilda as
on the edge of the wagon, with Sandy temporarily restrained by the hay
under which she had buried him, she paused a second ere she dropped to
the ground almost into the arms of the highly-edified Cheerio.

Sandy at last freed from his prison of hay was upon her tracks, and
with a blood-curdling yell of vengeance he leaped to the ground beside
her.

“You gimme that book!”

At the sight of Cheerio, Hilda’s clasp of the book had relaxed and it
was therefore a cinch for the attacking Sandy to seize and regain
possession of the disputed treasure. From the boy to the girl the
quizzical glance of the Englishman turned.

“I s-say, old man, b-believe that’s m-my book, d’you know.”

“Then she mus’ve swiped it, ’cause Viper found it in the hay loft and
that’s where she always hides to read, so Dad won’t ketch her.”

Hilda had turned first white and then rosily red. She felt that her
face was scorching and smarting tears bit at her eyelids waiting to
drop. One indeed did roll down the round sun-burnt cheek and splashed
visibly upon her hand right before the now thoroughly concerned
Cheerio. His face stiffened sternly as he looked at Sandy, and reaching
over he recovered his book. Quietly he extended it to Hilda. Sandy
thereupon pressed his claim in loud and emphatic language.

“That ain’t fair. She’s just turnin’ on her old water-works so’s to
make you give her the book. It ain’t fair. I’m just up to that part
where Porthos and----”

Hilda made no motion to take the book. Two more tears rolled to join
their first companion. Hilda could no more have stayed the course of
those flowing tears than she could have dammed up the ocean with her
little hand. She was forced to stand there, openly crying, before the
man she had so often assured herself that she hated. Far from “gloating
over” her humiliation as she imagined he was doing, Cheerio, as he
looked at the weeping girl, was himself consumed with the most tender
of emotions. He longed to take her into his arms and to comfort and
reassure her.

“Tell you what I’ll do,” said Cheerio, gently. “I’ll read the story to
you both. What do you say? An hour or two every evening while the light
lasts. Wh-when we’re through with this one, w-we’ll tackle others.
There’s three sequels to this, and we’ll read them all. Then we’ll go
at the ‘Count of Monte Christo.’ Th-that’s a remarkable yarn!”

“Three sequels! My aunt’s old hat!” yelled the delighted Sandy, tossing
his ragged head gear into the air. “Gee whillikins!”

But Cheerio was looking at Hilda, intently, appealingly. Her face had
lighted, and a strange shyness seemed to come over it, reluctantly,
sweetly. The long lashes quivered. She looked into the beaming face
bent eagerly toward her own, and for the first time since they had
met, right through her tears that still persisted strangely enough in
dropping, she smiled at Cheerio.




CHAPTER IX


“And they saw by the red flashes of the lightning against the violet
fog at six paces behind the governor, a man clothed in black and masked
by a visor of polished steel, soldered to a helmet of the same nature,
which altogether enveloped him....

“‘Come, monsieur,’ said Saint Mars sharply to the prisoner--‘Monsieur,
come on.’

“‘Say, “Monseigneur,”’ cried Athos from his corner, with a voice so
terrible that the governor trembled from head to foot. Athos insisted
upon respect being paid to fallen majesty. The prisoner turned around.

“‘Who spoke?’ said Saint Mars.

“‘It was I,’ said D’Artagnan.

“‘Call me neither “monsieur” nor “monseigneur,”’ said the
prisoner--‘Call me “Accursed.”’

“He passed on, and the iron door creaked after him.”

“Ten o’clock!”

“Oh-h!”

“It’s not--not quite ten. Your watch’s slow.”

“Ten minutes after,” declared Cheerio, hiding a smile as he glanced at
his watch in the slightly waning light.

A murmur of protest from Hilda, and a growl from Sandy, ready to argue
the point. It seemed as if they always reached the most thrilling part
of the narrative when “ten o’clock” the limit hour set for the end of
the reading would come and Cheerio would, with seeming reluctance,
close the enthralling book.

The readings had been substituted for the daily riding trips. The
adventures of “The Three Musketeers” were proving of even more
enthralling interest to Sandy than the fossilized bones of the early
inhabitants of the North American continent. No dime novel of the most
lurid sort had had the power to fascinate or appeal to the imagination
of the young McPhersons as this masterpiece of the elder Dumas. They
were literally transplanted in thought into the France of the Grande
Monarche.

Hilda indeed so lost herself each night in the chronicle that she
forgot her grudge against the reader, and sat on one side of him almost
as closely, peering over his arm at the page, as Sandy on the other
side. Of course, the steps were not wide and barely accommodated the
three and Hilda’s place was next to the wall. Cheerio sat between the
two.

After the readings there would follow an excited discussion of the
story that was almost as interesting as the tale itself. It was
astonishing how much this Englishman knew about France in the time of
Louis the XIV. Sandy would pepper him with questions, and sometimes
sought to entrap him into returning to the tale.

“What was Aramis doing at that time? I betchu he had a finger in it all
the time. Was he a regular priest?

“If I’d a been D’Artagnan you bet I’d ’ve stood up for the Man in the
Iron Mask. I betchu he’d ’ve made a better king than Louis. Couldn’t
you read just as far as where they take the mask off? Did they ever
take it off? Say, if you set your watch by Chum Lee’s clock, he’s eight
minutes and----”

“The clock’s all right, old man. To-morrow’ll be here soon. It’s
getting pretty dark now anyway.”

“Oh, that don’t mean it’s late, and I c’d get a lantern if you like.
Days are shorter now in Alberta. Before long we won’t have any night
light at all, ’cept the star and moon kind.”

Hilda was as concerned in the fortunes of the Musketeers as her
brother, but she was obliged to curb her curiosity. With the ending
of the reading, her diffidence and restraint would gradually creep
back upon her. She was not going to let this man know how throbbingly
interested she was. She did not wish him to know how limited had been
her reading up to this time. That was a family skeleton that was none
of his business, and she could have given Sandy a hard shaking when he
disclosed to Cheerio the type of literature that he and Hilda had been
“raised on.” Cheerio, with intense seriousness, assured them that their
father was “dead right.” That sort of reading, as P. D. had declared,
was “truck.”

“Well, it’s all there is anyway,” defended Sandy.

“Not by a jugful, old man. There’s no limit to the amount of books in
this good old world of ours--fine stuff, like this, Sandy. Some day
you’ll look upon them as friends--living friends.”

“Gee! I wisht I knew where I could get ’em then.”

“Why you can get all the books you want in the public library and in
the b-book stores.”

“That’s easy enough to say,” burst from Hilda, “but Dad never gives us
time when we go to Calgary to get anywhere near a library, and he’d
have a fit if we were to buy books. He says that he’ll choose all that
we need to read, and he doesn’t believe in stories or fiction and books
like that. He says it’s all made-up stuff and what we want to read--to
study, he says--is Truth.”

“Hmph!” from Sandy. “Yes, Mister Darwin and Mister Huxley and a lot
of for’n stuff. He’s got a heap of French and German books, but a lot
of good they do us, since we can’t read ’em. He’s got five volumes of
chess alone, and books and books ’bout cattle and pigs and horses. Just
s’f any boy wanted to read that sort of bunk. It’s a doggone shame.
If it wasn’t for the bunkhouse Hilda and I never would ’ve had no
ejucation at all.”

Cheerio laughed. He could not help himself, though he quickly repressed
it, as he felt the girl beside him stiffening.

“Well, old man, the stuff from the bunkhouse will do you more harm
than good. I wouldn’t touch it with a stick. Tell you what we’ll do.
When we’re through with the Musketeers, we’ll have a regular course of
reading.”

“You said there were three sequels to the Musketeers.”

“So there are, and we’ll read them too; but we want to vary our
reading. Now we’ll tackle a bit of Scott and then there’s some poetry I
want you to read and----”

“Poetry! Slush-mush! Gee, we don’t want any poetry.”

“Oh, yes, you do. Wait till you hear the kind of poetry I’m going to
read to you. Wait till we get into the ‘Idylls of the King.’”

“Idols! You mean gods like the savages worship?”

“No--but never mind. You’ll see when we get to them.”

Hilda said, with some pride:

“First time we go to Calgary, I’m going to buy some books for myself.”

“Where you going to get the money from?” demanded Sandy.

“I suppose Lady Bug won’t take the first prize at the Fall Horse
Show--Oh, no, of course not.”

“Ye-eh, and he’ll make you put the prize money in the bank.”

“He won’t.”

“How won’t he?”

“Because,” said Hilda, with dignity, “I happen to be eighteen years
old. That’s of age. He can’t. Of course, you----”

Sandy groaned. Hilda had on more than one occasion rubbed in to him the
sore matter of his infernal youth and her own advantage of being of
age--the extraordinary powers that descended upon her in consequence of
those eighteen years.

“I betchu,” said Sandy, “that Dad’ll whirl us through the town, in and
out for the Fair, and we won’t get anywhere near a book-store or the
libry, and we won’t get a hopping chance to do any shopping. And if we
do, he’ll go along to choose for us. Besides he’ll make you give him
a list of the things you buy, and you won’t dare to put books on that
list. He calls it systematic, scientific, mathmatical training of the
mind. Oh, my God--frey!”

“I don’t care,” said Hilda bitterly. “I intend to buy what I choose
with my own money. I’m going to get that book ‘The Sheik.’ I saw it in
the movies, with Valentino, and it was just lovely. Dad was playing
chess at the Palliser and left me in the car, and I got out and went
to the movies, and I just loved it, and I’m going every time I get a
chance. You just watch me.”

Something in the eager, hungry way in which the girl spoke touched
Cheerio and caused him suddenly to put his hand over the small one
resting on her lap. His touch had an electrical effect upon the girl.
She started to rise, catching her breath in almost a sob. She stood
hesitating, trembling, her hand still held in that warm, comforting
grasp. At that moment Cheerio would have given much to be alone with
the girl. A few moments only of this thrilling possession of the little
hand. Then it was wrenched passionately free. Hilda was regaining
possession of her senses. The dusk had fallen deeply about them and
he could not see her face, but he felt the quick, throbbing breath. A
moment only she stayed, and then there was only the blur of her fleeing
shadow in the night. Yet despite her going Cheerio felt strangely
warmed and most intensely happy. He was acquiring a better knowledge
and understanding of Hilda. Her odd moods, her chilling almost hostile
attitude and speech no longer distressed him. Perhaps this might
have been due to an amazing and most delicious explanation that her
red-haired brother had vouchsafed:

“I guess my sister’s stuck on you,” had volunteered Sandy carelessly,
whittling away at a stick, and utterly unconscious of the effect of his
words on the alert Cheerio. “’Cause she swipes you to your face and
throws a fit if anyone says a word about you behind your back.”

Little did that freckled-faced boy realize the amazing effects of his
words. No further information in fact might have come from him at this
juncture had not Cheerio flagrantly bribed him with “two bits.”

“Go on Sandy----”

“Go on with what?”

“About what you were saying about your sister.”

“Wa-al--” Sandy scratched his chin after the manner of his father,
as he tried to recall some specific instance to prove his sister’s
interest in the briber. “I said myself that you were a poor stiff
and she says: ‘You judge everyone by yourself, don’t you?’ And then
I heard her give Hello to Bully Bill, ’cause he said that Holy Smoke
was the best rider at O Bar O and Hilda says: ‘Why, Cheerio can ride
all around him and back again. He’s just a big piece of cheese.’ And
I heard Ho himself makin’ fun of you ’bout takin’ baths every day and
’bout your boiled Sunday shirts, and Hilda says to him: ‘’Twouldn’t be
a bad idea if you took a leaf or two out of his book yourself; only
you’ll need to stay in the river when you do get there, though it’ll
be hard on the river.’ And another time I heard her say to Bully Bill
when he was referrin’ to you as a vodeveel act, that time they put you
to breakin’ Spitfire, she says: ‘Wonder what you’d look like yourself
on his back? Wonder if you’d stay on. Spitfire’s pretty slippery, you
know, and you’re no featherweight,’ and Bully Bill says: ‘Hell, I ain’t
no tenderfoot,’ and she says: ‘’Course not. You’re a hard-boiled pig’s
foot,’ and before he could sass her back--if he dared and he don’t
dare, neither, she was off into the house and had banged the door on
him. You know Hilda. Gee!”

Yes, he was beginning to know Hilda!




CHAPTER X


Holy Smoke was strong as an ox and had the reputation of phenomenal
deeds done “across the line,” where to use his own boasts “they did
things brown.” It is true, he had come hastily out of that particular
part of the American union, with a posse at his heels. He had secured a
berth at O Bar O in a busy season, when help was scarce and work heavy.
His big physique stood him in good stead when it came to a matter
of endurance, though he was too heavy for swift riding, needed for
breaking horses or cutting out cattle. However, there was no man in the
country could beat him at lariat throwing and he was generally esteemed
a first-rate hand. His last name was actually “Smoke,” and his first
initial “H” it did not take the men long to dub him “Holy Smoke” though
he was more shortly called “Ho.”

Other nicknames were secretly applied to him. Secretly because Ho had
achieved such a reputation as a fighter that few of the men cared to
risk his displeasure by calling him to his face “Windy Ho” or “Blab.”
His was the aggressive, loud-voiced overbearing type of personality
that by sheer noise often will win out in an argument and makes an
impression on those who are not expert students of character. Few at
O Bar O questioned the prowess of which Ho everlastingly boasted, for
he looked the part he played. His favourite boast was that he “could
lick any son-of-a-gun in Alberta, just as I licked every son-of-a-gun
in Montana” with one hand tied behind. No one accepted his challenge,
pugnaciously tossed forth, and little Buddy Wallace, one of P. D.’s
diminutive jockies, hurriedly retreated when the big fellow merely
stretched out a clinched fist toward him.

Even Bully Bill, himself somewhat of a blusterer, discovered in Ho a
personality more domineering than his own. It was uncomfortable to
have the big bully around, but the foreman had never quite screwed up
the courage to “fire the man” as more than once P. D. had suggested.
Easy-going and good-natured Bully Bill had suffered Ho to remain all of
that summer, enduring meanwhile the fellow’s arrogance and boasts and
even threats of violence to each and every hand upon the place. He had
wormed his way to the position of temporary assistant foreman, as Bully
Bill had discovered that the men took orders from him as meekly as
from P. D. himself. This was up to the time that Cheerio drifted into
O Bar O. Soon after that memorable day, another even more important
in the annals of O Bar O dawned that not only elevated the Englishman
permanently from the woodpile and chores to the proud position of first
rider, but lost Ho his prestige in the cattle country.

The row started in the cook-car. The first prod in his side had been
ignored by Cheerio, who had continued to eat his meal in silence, just
as if a vicious punch from the thick elbow of the man on his right
had not touched him. Holy Smoke winked broadly down the length of the
table. At the second prod, Cheerio looked the man squarely in the eye
and said politely:

“I wouldn’t keep that up if I were you.”

This brought a roar of laughter followed by the third prod. There was a
pause. He had raised in the interval his bowl of hot soup in his hands
and was greedily and noisily swallowing, when a surprising dig in his
own left rib not only produced a painful effect but sent the hot soup
spluttering all over him. Up rose the huge cowhand, while in the tense
silence that ensued all hands held their breath in thrilled suspense.
As Ho cleared his vision--temporarily dimmed by the hot soup, Cheerio,
who had also risen in his seat, said quietly:

“I d-don’t want to hurt you, you know, b-but the fact is it’s got to be
done. S-suppose we go outside. T-too bad to m-make a m-m-mess of Chum
Lee’s car.”

Holy Smoke snorted, hitched his trousers up by the belt, and then in
ominous silence he accompanied the Englishman, followed by every man in
the cook-car, including Chum Lee.

A ring was made in short order and into the ring went the snorting,
loudly-laughing Ho and the lean, quiet young Englishman.

“I hate this sort of a thing,” said Cheerio, “and if you feel equal to
an apology, old man, we’ll let it go at that.”

Holy Smoke retorted with a low string of oaths and a filthy name that
brought Cheerio’s fist squarely up to his jaw.

To describe that fight would require more craft and knowledge than the
author possesses. Suffice it to say that weight and size, the strength
of the powerful hands and limbs availed the cowhand nothing when pitted
against the scientific skill of one of the cleanest boxers in the
British army, who, moreover, had studied in the east that little-known
but remarkable art of wrestling known as jiujitsu. The big man found
himself whirling about in a circle, dashing blindly this way and that,
and through the very force of his own weight and strength overcoming
himself, and in the end to find himself literally going over the head
of the man who had ducked like lightning under him. There on the
ground sprawled the huge, beaten bully, who had tyrannized over the
men of O Bar O. His the fate to come to out of his daze only to hear
the frantic yells and cheers of the encircling men and to see his
antagonist borne back into the cook-car upon the shoulders of the men.

Holy Smoke was a poor loser. His defeat, while it quenched in a
measure his outward show of bluster, left him nursing a grudge against
Cheerio, which he promised himself would some day be wiped out in a
less conspicuous manner and place. Not only had his beating caused him
to lose caste in the eyes of the men of the ranching country, but the
story went the rounds of the ranches, and the big cowhand suffered
the snubs and heartless taunts of several members of the other sex.
Now Ho was what is termed “a good looker,” and his conquests over the
fair sex generally had long been the subject of gossip and joke or
serious condemnation. He was, however, ambitious and aspired to make
an impression upon Hilda McPherson. For her this big handsome animal
had no attraction, and his killing glances, his oily compliments and
the flashy clothes that might have impressed a simpler-minded maid than
she, aroused only her amused scorn. Herself strong and independent by
nature, beneath her thorny exterior Hilda McPherson had the tender
heart of the mother-thing, and the brute type of man appealed less to
her than one of a slighter and more æsthetic type.

Furthermore, Hilda loved little Jessie Three-Young-Mans, a squaw of
fifteen sad years, whose white-faced blue-veined papoose was kept alive
only by the heroic efforts of Hilda and the Agency doctor. The Morley
Indian Reserve adjoined the O Bar O ranch, and P. D. employed a great
many of the tribe for brush-cutting, fencing and riding at round-ups.
No matter how unimportant a job given to a “brave,” he moved upon the
place the following day with all of his relatives far and near, and
until the job was done, O Bar O would take on the aspect of an Indian
encampment. At such times Hilda, who knew personally most of the
Indians of the Stoney tribe, would ride over to the camp daily to call
upon the squaws, her saddle bags full of the sweet food the Indians
so loved. She was idolized by the Indian women. When riding gauntlets
and breeks were to be made for the daughter of P. D. only the softest
of hides were used and upon them the squaws lavished their choicest
of bead work. They were for “Miss Hildy, the Indian’s friend.” Of all
the squaws, Hilda loved best Jessie Three-Young-Mans; but Jessie had
recently fallen into deep trouble. Like her tiny papoose, the Indian
girl’s face had that faraway longing look of one destined to leave this
life ere long. She who had strayed from her own people clung the closer
to them now when she was so soon to leave them forever. Hilda alone of
the white people, the Indian girl crept forth from her tent to greet.
What she refused to tell even her parents, Jessie revealed to Hilda
McPherson and accordingly Hilda loathed Holy Smoke.

However, Ho was assistant foreman at O Bar O and very often in full
charge of the ranch, for there were times when Bully Bill went to the
camps to oversee certain operations and in his absence Ho had charge of
the ranch and its stock. Also in P. D.’s absence, Hilda was accustomed
to take her father’s place so far as the men were concerned, and if
there were any questions that needed referring to the house they were
brought to her. Thus she was forced to come into contact with the
foreman as well as his assistant.

Ho had what Hilda considered a “disgusting habit” of injecting personal
remarks into his conversation when he came to the house on matters
connected with the cattle, and no amount of snubbing or even sharp
reproof or insult feazed him. He was impervious to hurt and continued
his smirking efforts to ingratiate himself with P. D.’s daughter. He
always spruced himself up for those calls at the ranch-house, slicked
his hair smooth with oil and axle grease, put on his white fur chaps,
carried his huge Mexican sombrero with its Indian head band, and with
gay handkerchief at his neck, Ho set out to make a “hit” with his
employer’s daughter.

At the time when Cheerio was reading from Dumas, P. D. was away in
Edmonton, and for a few days Bully Bill had gone down to Calgary,
accompanying his men with a load of steers for the local market. Ho,
therefore, in the absence of both of the bosses, was in charge of the
ranch, and one evening he presented himself at the house, ostensibly
to inquire regarding the disposition of certain yearlings that had
been shipped by Bully Bill from the Calgary stockyards. Were they to
be turned on the range with the other stuff? Should he keep them in
separate fields? How about rebranding the new stuff? Should he go ahead
or wait till the round-up of the O Bar O yearlings and brand all at one
time?

“Dad’s in Edmonton,” replied Hilda. “You had better wait till he gets
back, though I don’t know just when that will be. He’s playing chess.”

“Couldn’t you get him by phone or wire, Miss Hilda? Rather important to
know what to do with this new stuff, seein’ as how they’re pure-bred.
Maybe the boss’ll want them specially cared for.”

“I could phone, of course, for I know where to get him, but it makes
him mad as a hornet to talk on the telephone, especially long distance,
and as for a wire, like as not, if Dad’s playing chess, he’d just chuck
it into his pocket and never bother to read it.”

“Wa-al, I just thought I’d come along over and talk it out with you,
Miss Hilda. Your orders goes, you know, every time.”

He helped himself to a seat, which the girl had not proffered him, and
stretched out his long legs as if for a prolonged visit. Hilda remained
standing, looking down at him coolly, then she quietly moved toward the
door, and opened it.

“That’ll be all, then,” she said, and held the screen door open.

The cowhand, with a black look at the back of the small, proud head,
arose and taking the hint he passed out. Hilda snapped the screen door
and hooked it. From outside, in a last effort to detain her, Ho said:

“One minute, Miss Hilda. Did you say them doegies were to go into the
south pasture with our own stuff, then?”

Hilda had not mentioned the south pasture. However she said now:

“I suppose that will be all right, won’t it?”

“Well, if they was mine I’d keep ’em in the corrals for a bit, and give
’em the once-over in case they’s any blackleg among em. They’s one or
two looks kind o’ suspicious.”

“All right, then. Keep them in the corrals.”

After all, the man knew his business, and she looked at him curiously
through the screen door.

“Everything else on the place all right? Nothing loose? I thought I saw
some stuff in the bull pasture when I rode up from the Minnehaha ranch
to-day.”

“Them doegies is all right, Miss Hilda. There ain’t nothin’ out ’cept
what’s meant to be out. You leave it to me. Nothin’s goin’ to git out
of hick with the boss away, you can take it from me.”

“I didn’t mean to question that,” she said quickly.

Her father’s sense of squareness in treatment of his men was shared by
her, and she added with a slightly more friendly tone:

“You know an awful lot about cattle, don’t you, Ho?”

To give Ho “an inch” was to yield the proverbial mile. Instantly he was
grinning back at her, his chest swelling with conceit and self-esteem,
as he pressed against the screen door, his bold eyes seeking hers.

“I know ’bout everything they is to know ’bout cattle--the two-legged
as well as the four.”

“Is that so?”

“You see, Miss Hilda, they ain’t much difference between ’em, whichever
way you look at ’em. Some folks are scrub stock and go up blind before
the branding iron; others is like yourself, Miss Hilda, with high
spirits and you got to get ’em broke in the Squeezegate before you
can use ’em. Pretty hard to slip a lariat over that kind, but they’s
a saying among cowhands that ‘every outlaw has his day,’ and I’m
thinking”--his bold eyes leered into her own with significance, “the
rope’ll git you too.”

“You think so, do you? Well, who do you think is smart enough to get
the rope over my head, I’d like to know?”

He leered and chuckled. The conversation was to his liking.

“Can’t say, but the woods is full of them as is achin’ for the chance.
Some day when you’re loose on the range maybe you’ll slip under.”

Hilda’s scorn had turned to anger. Holy Smoke’s body was against the
screen door, bulging the wirework in. His cunning gaze never left her
face. He had lowered his voice meaningly.

“How about that English fly, Miss? He’s getting fair handy with the
lariat, they do say.”

Hilda had flushed scarlet and drawn back with blazing eyes, but the
words of the cowhand on the outer side of the door stopped her in her
premeditated flight and sent a cold shiver all over her.

“Ye needn’t to worry ’bout him, Miss Hilda. He ain’t likely to swing
his lariat in your direction. It’s hooked already over another one.”

Hilda’s dry lips, against her will, moved in burning query:

“Who do you mean?”

She scarcely knew her own voice. Something wild and primitive was
surging through her being. She wanted to cry out, to hurl something
into the face of the grinning man at the door, yet fascinated,
tormented, she stayed for an answer:

“Her that’s under his pillow. Her that he takes along of him wherever
he goes and has locked up in one of them gold gimcracks as if her face
was radio. It’d make you laugh to see him take it to bed with him, and
tuck it just as if it was heaven under his pillow and----”

Hilda stared blankly at the man on the other side of the door. She
uttered not a word. Her hand shot out, as if she were dealing a blow to
him, and the inside door banged hard.




CHAPTER XI


There were eighteen hundred head of calves to be vaccinated, branded,
dehorned and weaned. Over the widespreading hills and meadows the
cattle poured in a long unbroken stream, bellowing and calling as
they moved. The round-up included the mothers, eighteen hundred head
of white-faced Herefords. These, sensing danger to their young, came
unwillingly, moaning and stopping stolidly to bawl their unceasing
protests or to call peremptorily to their straying offspring. Sometimes
a mother would make a break for freedom and a rider would have his
hands full driving her out of the dense brush where the fugitive might
find a temporary asylum.

At the corrals they were driving long posts four feet deep into the
earth. Close by the posts a soft coal fire spat and blazed. “Doc”
Murray, veterinary surgeon, on an upturned wooden box, sleeves rolled
to elbow and pipe in the corner of his mouth, squatted, directing the
preparations. Everything was done ship-shape at O Bar O.

For some time, oblivious to the taunts and jeers cast at him, Cheerio,
returned from the round-up, had been standing by his horse’s head
gazing up the hill in a brown study of rapture. The sight of that
army sweeping in from all directions over the hills and from the
woods, to meet in the lower pastures and automatically form in to that
symmetrical file, fascinated him beyond words. Even the riders, loosely
seated on their horses, their bright handkerchiefs blowing free in the
breeze, whirling lariat and long cattle whips, flanking and following
the herd, seemed pleasing to the eye of the Englishman.

Though the day of the chap-clad, large-hatted type of cowboy is said to
have passed in the Western States, in Alberta he is still a thriving,
living reality. In this “last of the big lands,” where the cattle still
range over hundreds of thousands of acres, their guardians appear to
have somewhat of that romantic element about them which has made
the cowboy famous in story and in song. He wears the fur and leather
chaps, the buckskin shirts and coats, the Indian beaded gauntlets and
the wide felt hats not wholly because they are good to look at, but
because of their sterling qualities for utilitarian purposes. The
chaps are indispensable for the trail, the fur ones for warmth and
general protection and the leather ones for the brush. The great hats,
which the Indians also use in Alberta, serve the double purposes of
protection from a too-ardent sun and as great drinking vessels during a
long ride. The hide shirts are both wind and sun proof and the beadwork
sewn on with gut thread serve as excellent places for the scratching
of matches. Cheerio himself had by now a full cowboy outfit, chaps,
hide shirt, wide hat, flowing tie, but he never tired of looking
appreciatively at the other fellows in similar garb. Now, with eyes
slightly screwed to get the right angle upon them, he planned a canvas
that was some day to hang in a place of great honour.

The morning’s work had been exhilarating. To him had been assigned
some of the most difficult riding tasks of the round-up. He had been
dispatched into the bush on the east side of the Ghost River to gather
in forty-seven strays that had taken refuge in the bog lands and had
drawn with them their young into this insecure and dubious protection
from the riders.

Cheerio had ridden through woods so dense that his horse could barely
squeeze between the bushes and the trees. He had been obliged to draw
his feet out of the stirrups and ride cross-legged in his saddle.
Sometimes he was forced to dismount and lead his horse over trails
so narrow that the animal had balked and hesitated to pass until
led. Rattling a tin bell made of an empty tomato can with a couple
of rocks in it, Cheerio wended his way through the deep woods. This
loudly-clanking contraption served to rouse and frighten the hidden
cattle out into the open, but several of them retreated and plunged
farther into the bush that bordered hidden pools of succulent mud and
quicksand.

The branches of the thick trees had snapped against his face as he rode
and his chin and cheeks were scratched where the wide hat had failed
to afford sufficient protection. The sleeves of his rough riding shirt
were literally torn to shreds and even the bright magenta chaps that
were his especial pride and care came out of that brush ragged, soiled
and full of dead leaves, brush and mud.

He had been delayed at a slough whose surface of dark green growth gave
no intimation of the muddy quicksands beneath. Stuck hard in the mud of
this pool a terrified heifer was slowly sinking, while her bawling calf
was restrained from following its mother only through the quick action
of Cheerio, who drove the distracted little creature a considerable
distance into the woods ere he returned to its mother.

It is one thing to throw the lariat in an open space and to land it
upon the horns or the back feet of a fleeing animal. It is another
thing to swing a lariat in a thickly-wooded bush where the noose is
more likely than not to land securely in the branch or the crotch of a
tree, resisting all tugs and jerks to leave its secure hold. Cheerio,
inexpert with the lariat, gave up all thought of rescuing the animal
in that way. Instead, his quick wits worked to devise a more ingenious
method of pulling the heifer from the slough, where she would have
perished without help.

Along the edges of the woods were fallen willow trees and bushes that
the Indians had cleaved for future fence posts. Cheerio hauled a
quantity of these over to the slough, and shoving and piling them in
criss-cross sections, he made a sort of ford to within about fifteen
feet of the mired cow. His horse was tied by its halter rope to a tree.
With one end of the lariat firmly attached to the pommel of his saddle
which had been cinched on to the animal very tightly and the other
end about his own waist, Cheerio crossed this ford toward the animal.
He now let out the lariat and coiled its end for the toss. It landed
easily upon the horns of the animal. Holding to the rope, now drawn
taut, Cheerio made his way back over the ford. Unfastening his horse,
he mounted. Now began the hard part of the work. His horse rode out a
few feet and the sudden pull upon the horns of the cow brought her to
her feet. She stumbled and swayed but the rope held her up. A pause for
rest for horse and heifer, and then another and harder and longer pull
and tug. The cow, half-strangled in the mud, nevertheless was drawn
along by the stout lariat rope. She slid along the slippery floor of
the slough and not till her feet touched sod was she able to give even
a feeble aid to the now heavily-panting mare.

Once on solid ground, Cheerio burst into a cheer such as an
excited boy might have given, and he called soothingly to the
desperately-frightened heifer.

“You’re doing fine, old girl! There you go! Ripping!” And to the mare:

“Good for you, Sally-Ann! You’re a top-notcher, old girl!”

There was an interval to give the exhausted animals an opportunity for
a rest and then they were on the bush trail again, the heifer going
slowly ahead, thoroughly tamed and dejected, yet raising her head with
monotonous regularity to call and moan her long loud cry for her young.

As Cheerio came out into the open range certain words recurred to his
mind and he repeated them aloud with elation and pride:

“They’s the makings of a damn fine cowboy in you,” had said the foreman
of O Bar O.

He was whooping and hurrahing internally for himself and he felt as
proud of his achievement as if he had won a hard pitched battle.
In fact, if one reckoned success in the terms of dollars and of
cents, then Cheerio had saved for O Bar O the considerable sum of
$1500, which was the value of the pure-bred heifer rescued from the
slough. Moreover, Cheerio had brought from the bush the full quota of
missing cows and their offspring. When at last he joined up with that
steadily-growing line pouring down from all parts of the woods and the
ranges, to join in the lower meadows, he was whistling and jubilantly
keeping time to his music with the clanking “bell,” and when he came
within sight of his “mates” he waved his hat above his head, and rode
gleefully down among them, shouting and boasting of his day’s work. He
counted his cows with triumph before the doubting “Thomases” who had
predicted that the tenderfoot would come out of that dense wood with
half a heifer’s horn and a calf’s foot.

They rode westward under a sky bright blue, while facing them,
wrapped about in a haze of soft mauve, the snow-crowned peaks of the
Rocky Mountains towered before them like a dream. The glow of a late
summer day was tinting all of the horizon and rested in slumberous
splendour upon the widespreading bosom of pastures and meadows and
fair undulating sloping hills. Almost in silence, as if unconsciously
subdued by the beauty of the day, came the O Bar O outfit, riding
ahead, behind, and flanking the two sides of that marvellous army of
cattle.

Small wonder that the Englishman’s heart beat high and that his blood
seemed to race in his veins with an electrical fervour that comes from
sheer joy and satisfaction with life. If anyone had asked him whether
he regretted the life he had deliberately sacrificed for this wild
“adventure” in Western Canada, he would have shouted with all the
vehemence and it may be some of the typical profanity of O Bar O:

“Not by a blistering pipeful! This is the life! It’s r-ripping!
It’s--Jake!”

But now they were at the corrals. Finished the exhilarating riding of
the range, done the pretty work of cutting out the cattle and drawing
the herd into that line while one by one they were passed through the
gates that opened into especial pastures assigned for the mothers,
while the calves that were to be operated upon were “cut out” and
driven into the corrals.

Slowly Cheerio tore his gaze from the fascinating spectacle of that
moving stream of cattle and turned towards the corral. He saw, first
of all, a giant structure, a platform on which was a gallowslike
contrivance. Already a bawling calf had been driven up the incline
and its head had been gripped by the closing gates around its neck.
The Squeezegate! The dehorning shears were being sharpened over the
grindstone and the whirring of the wheel, the grating of the steel
hissed into the moaning cries of the trapped calves in the corrals.




CHAPTER XII


Holy Smoke rode in ahead with orders from Bully Bill for all hands
finished riding to fall to and help at the branding and the dehorning.
To each man was assigned some especial post or task, and Ho was in his
element as he shouted his orders to the men, “showing off” in great
form. His left eye had flattened in a broad wink to the veterinary
surgeon, as he paused by Cheerio, turned now from the Squeezegate and
trying to recapture the enthusiasm that had animated him before he had
noted that platform.

“Hey you there! Bull ses yer to give a hand to the Doc, and there ain’t
no time neither for mannicarring your nails before fallin’ to. This
ain’t no weddin’ march, take it from me. We ain’t had no round-up for
fun. We’re here to brand and dehorn, d’ you get me?”

“Righto!”

Cheerio drew up sprightly before Dr. Murray and saluted that
grimy, nicotine-stained “vet.” The latter glimpsed him over in one
unflattering and comprehensive sweep of a pair of keen black eyes.
Then, through the corner of his mouth, he hailed young Sandy, right on
the job at the fire.

“Hey, kid, give a poke, will yer? Keep that fire agoing.”

This was a job upon which Sandy doted. From his baby years, fire had
been both his joy and his bane, for despite many threats and whippings,
the burning down of a costly barn brought a drastic punishment that was
to stick hotly in the memory of even a boy who loved fire as dearly as
did Sandy. It caused him forevermore to regard matches with respect
and an element of fear. P. D. had deliberately burned the tips of his
son’s fingers. Though Sandy feared the fire, he still loved it. With
both care and craft, therefore, he poked the fire, and pounded the huge
pieces of coal till they spluttered and burst into flames. The heat
grew intense.

The cattle were now pouring into the corrals and the riders by the
gates were cutting out such of the mothers as had gotten through,
besides certain weaklings of the herd that were to be spared the
branding. These, temporarily driven to adjoining corrals, set up
the most deafening outcries and calls for their young, while in the
calf corrals these sturdy young creatures voiced their indignant and
anguished protests.

Darting in and out of the clamouring herd, the experienced “hands”
bunched and separated them according to the bellowing orders of Holy
Smoke.

The scorching crunch of the closing Squeezegate and the first long
bawl of agony swept the pink from the cheeks of the Englishman. He was
seized with a sudden, overwhelming impulse to flee from this Place of
Horrors, but as he turned instinctively toward the gate, he saw Hilda
standing upon it. She had climbed to the third rung and, hands holding
lightly to the top rail, she watched the operations with professional
curiosity. For a moment, Cheerio suffered a pang of revolting
repugnance. That one so young and so lovely should be thus callous to
suffering seemed to him an inexcusable blemish.

It may be that Hilda sensed something of his judgment of her, for there
was a pronounced lifting of that dangerous young chin and the free
toss of the head so characteristic of her wild nature, while her dark
eyes shone defiantly. Almost unconsciously, he found himself excusing
her. She had been born to this life. Since her baby years she had been
freely among cattle and horses and men. Daughter of a cattleman, Hilda
knew that the most painful of the operations, namely, the dehorning,
was, in a measure, a merciful thing for the cattle, who might otherwise
gore each other to death. The vaccination was but a pin prick, an
assurance against the deadly blackleg. As for the branding, it was
not nearly as painful as was generally supposed, and first aid was
immediately administered to relieve the pang of the burning. It was the
only means the cattlemen had for the identification of their property.
She resented, therefore, the horror and reproach which she sensed in
the stern gaze of the Englishman. Her cool, level glance swept his
white, accusing face.

“Pretty sight, isn’t it?” she taunted. “If there’s one thing I love,”
she went on, defiantly, “it is to see a brand slapped on true!”

With a nonchalant wisp of a smile, her tossing head indicated the
stake, to which a three-month-old calf was bound, its head upturned as
the red-hot branding iron smote with a firm, quick shot upon its left
side.

The odour of burnt hide nauseated Cheerio. He felt the blood deserting
his face and lips. His knees and hands had a curiously numb sensation.
He was dizzy and almost blind. He found himself holding to the gate
rail, the critical, judging glance of the girl fixed in question upon
his face.

Like one hypnotized, he forced his gaze toward the branded calf and he
saw something then that brought his trembling hand out in a gesture
of almost entreaty and pain. A long, red spurt of blood was trickling
down the animal’s side. The old terror of blood swept over him in a
surge--a terror that had bitten into his soul upon the field of battle.
It was something constitutional, pathological, utterly beyond his
control.

Cheerio no longer saw the girl beside him, nor felt the stab of her
scornful smile. He had the impulse to cry out to her, to explain that
which had been incomprehensible to his comrades in France.

Hilda’s voice seemed to come from very far away and the tumult that
made up the bawling voices of Holy Smoke and the raging hands of the
O Bar O was utterly unintelligible to him; nor could he comprehend
that the shouts were directed at him. In a way, the shouting brought
him stark back to another scene, when, in wrath, men seemed to rush
over him and all in a black moment the world had spun around him in
a nightmare that was all made up of blood--filthy, terrifying, human
blood.

Ho’s bawling message was transmitted from bawling mouth to bawling
mouth.

“Take the rope at the south stake, and take it damn quick. Are yer
goin’ to let the bloody calf wait all the damn day for his brandin’?”

Above the tumult cut the girl’s quiet, incisive words:

“Get on your job! You’re wanted at the south stake.”

“My job? Oh, by Jove, what was it I was to do?”

His hand went vaguely across his eyes. He staggered a few paces across
the corral.

“Hold the rope!” squealed Sandy, jumping up and down by the stake. “I
gotter keep the fire goin’, and the other fellers has their hands full
at the Squeezegate.”

“Hold the bally rope! Oh, yes. Wh-wh-where is the bally thing?”

“Here! Catch him! That’s Jake! There you go, round and round. Keep
agoin’. Hold taut there! Don’t let go whatever you do. That calf’s
awful strong. If you don’t look out she’ll get away!”

Sandy’s young wrists had been barely strong enough to hold the rope
that bound the wretched calf to the stake. Pink Eye, wielding with
skill a long lariat that never failed to land upon the horns of the
desired calf and bring it to the stake, urged all hands along with
profane and impure language. Automatically and with perfect precision,
Hootmon was clapping the brand upon one calf after another and passing
them along to the “Vet,” who in turn thrust the syringe into the thigh,
the prick of the vaccination being dulled in comparison with the
fiercer pang of the branding iron. Now the rope had passed from Sandy
to Cheerio and there was a pause.

“Get a wiggle on you! Hold tight! Round this way! For the love of Saint
Peter!”

At the other end of the rope that Sandy had thrust into his hands, a
three-month-old calf pulled and fought for freedom. From its head,
where the dehorning shears had already performed their work a dark
sickening stream dripped. Sandy had twisted the rope partly around the
post but it still remained unknotted.

Someone was calling something across the corral. Cheerio found himself
going around and around the post. Suddenly a wild bawl of anguish from
the tortured animal sent him staggering back and at the same moment the
calf seemed to plunge against him and the hot blood spurted against his
face.

At that moment he clearly heard again the crisp whipping words of his
captain, scorching his soul with its bitter ring of hatred and scorn.
The rope slipped from his hand. He threw up his arm blindly, shrinking
back. His breath caught in the old craven sob. Down into deep depths of
space he sank, sickened.

Hilda McPherson had leaped down from the rail and with an inarticulate
cry, she gathered Cheerio’s head into her arms. It was the coarse
sneering voice of Holy Smoke that recalled her and forced her to see
that shining thing that was pinned to the breast of the unconscious man.

“Wearin’ her over his heart, huh!” chuckled Ho, one thick, dirty finger
upon the locket, while his knowing glance pinned the stricken one of
the girl. With a sob, Hilda drew back, and came slowly to her feet, her
eyes still looking down at the unconscious face with an element of both
terror and anguish.

He returned with a cry--a startling cry of blended agony and fear, for
the odour of blood was still in his nostrils and all about him was the
tumult of the battlefield; but all that Hilda noted was that his first
motion was that grasp at his breast. His hand closed above the locket.
He sat up unsteadily, dazedly. He even made an effort now to smile.

“That’s f-funny. Carn’t stand the blood. M-makes me f-funky.
C-c-constitutional--” His words dribbled off.

Hilda said nothing. She continued to stare down at him, but her face
had hardened.

“What t’ ’ell’s the matter?” snarled Ho. “Ain’t yer fit to stand the
gaff of a bit of brandin’ even?”

The girl’s averted face gave him no encouragement, and Cheerio went on
deliriously, slipping deeper and deeper into the mire of disgrace.

“C-carn’t stand the b-b-blood. M-makes me sick. Constitutional.
Affected me like that in France. I w-w-went f-funky when they needed me
m-most--dr-opped out, you know--r-r-r-ran away and----”

Ho, hand cupped at the back of his ear, was drinking in every word
of the broken confession, while his delighted eyes exchanged glances
with the girl. Her chin had gone to a high level. Without looking at
Cheerio, she said:

“Say no more. We have your number.”

“Better get to the bunkhouse,” said Ho. “This ain’t no place for a
minister’s son.”

Cheerio managed somehow to come to his feet. He still felt fearfully
weak and the persisting odour of blood and burnt hide made him sick
beyond endurance. Limping to the gate, he paused a moment to say to the
girl, with a pathetic attempt at lightness of speech:

“’Fraid I’m not cut out for cowboy life. I’d j-jolly well like to learn
the g-game. I d-don’t seem exactly to fit.”

She was leaning against the corral gate. Her face was turned away,
and the averted cheek was scarlet. He felt the blaze of her scornful
eyes and suffered an exquisite pang of longing to see them again as
sometimes, after the readings in the evening, humid and wide, they had
looked back at him in the twilight.

“No, you don’t fit,” she said slowly. “It takes a man with guts to
stand our life--a dead game sport, and not--not----”

She left the sentence unfinished, leaving the epithet to his
imagination. She turned her back upon him. He limped to the house. For
a long time he sat on the steps, his head in his hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

Slowly there grew into his consciousness another scene. He had come
to suddenly out of just such a moment of unconsciousness as that he
had suffered at the corral. Then there had flooded over him such
an overpowering consciousness of what had befallen him that he had
staggered, with a shout, to his feet. At the psychological moment,
when his company had started forward, he had welched, stumbled back,
and, with the anguished oaths of the captain he loved ringing in his
ears, Cheerio had gone down into darkness. He had come to as one in a
resurrection, born anew, and invigorated with a passionate resolve to
compensate with his life for that error, that moment of weakness.

There was an objective to be taken at any cost. The men had gone on. He
found himself crawling across No Man’s Land. But a hundred feet away he
came to his company. Upon the ground they lay, like a bunch of sheep
without a leader. There was not an officer left, save that one who had
been his friend and who had cursed him for a renegade when he turned
back. Fearfully wounded, his captain was slowly pulling his way along
the ground, painfully worming toward that clump of wood from which the
sporadic bursts of gun fire were coming. Cheerio understood. Someone
had to put that machine-gun out of commission or they would all be
annihilated. He was crawling side by side with his captain, begging
him to turn back and to trust him to take his place. He was pleading,
arguing, threatening and forcing the wounded man down into a shell-hole
where he could not move. Now he was on his own job.

Alone, within forty or fifty yards of the machine-gun, he paused,
to take stock of what he had in the way of ammunition with him. He
found he had a single smoke bomb and resolved to use it. Getting into
a shell-hole, he unslung his rifle and placed the bomb into it and
prepared it for firing. He waited for the right wind to shift the smoke
and then carefully fired the gun.

By some remarkable stroke of fortune, it fell and exploded in such a
position that the wind carried the smoke in a heavy cloud immediately
over the German machine-gun post, rendering the operators of the
machine absolutely powerless. At that moment Cheerio leaped from the
shell-hole, and rushing forward, pulled a pin from a Mills bomb, as he
ran. When about twenty yards away, he threw the bomb into the smoke and
fell to the ground to await the explosion. It came with a terrific
crash, fragments of the bomb bursting overhead. Jumping up and grasping
his rifle firmly, he plunged into the smoke which had not yet cleared.
Suddenly he fell into a trench, and he could not restrain a cheer to
find that the machine-gun was lying on its side. It was out of action.

There was no time to survey the situation, for two of the enemy had
rushed toward him swinging their “potato mashers” as the British
soldiers were wont to call this type of bomb. Now that he realized that
he had accomplished his objective, his elation had turned to the old
sickening feeling of terror, as he watched one of the Germans pull the
little white knob and throw the grenade. It missed him and struck the
parapet of the trench. About to rush him, the Germans were restrained
by an officer who had come up unobserved until then. He would take the
Englishman prisoner. There were questions he desired to put to him.
Yelling: “Komm mit!” they pushed him to his feet, and with prods of
the bayonet, Cheerio went before the Germans.

       *       *       *       *       *

His hands swept his face as if by their motion he put away that
scene that had come back so clearly to memory. No! Not even the girl
he loved--for in his misery, Cheerio faced the fact that he loved
Hilda--not even she could truthfully name him--coward!




CHAPTER XIII


Hard as it is to build up a reputation in a cattle country, which has
its own standards of criticism as everywhere else in the world, it is
not difficult to lose that reputation. From tongue to tongue rolled
the story of Cheerio’s weakness and confession at the branding corral,
and that story grew like a rolling snowball in the telling, so that
presently it would appear that he had confessed not merely to the most
arrant cowardice at the front, but gross treachery to his country and
his king.

Every man at O Bar O was a war veteran. Few of them, it is true, had
seen actual service at the front. Nevertheless, they had acquired the
point of view of the man in the army who is quick to suspect and judge
one he thinks has “funked.” The most jealous and hard in their judgment
were they who were licked in by the long arm of conscription and who
had “served” at the Canadian and English camps.

When Cheerio, clean and refreshed by a dip in the Ghost River, came in
late to the cook-car and cast a friendly glance about him, not even
Hootmon or Pink-Eyed Jake looked up from their “feeding.” An ominous
silence greeted him, and the tongues that were buzzing so loudly prior
to his entrance were stuck into cheeks, while meaning glances and winks
went along the benches, as his grey eyes swept the circle of faces.

“Cheerio! Fellows!” said Cheerio gently, and fell to upon his dinner.

Chum Lee slapped down the soup none too gently into his bowl and as he
did so, the Chinaman said:

“Sloup velly good for men got cold fleet! Eat him quick!”

Bully Bill, his ear inclined to the moving mouth of Holy Smoke, arose
solemnly in his place at the head of the long table, slouched down the
line of men, came to where Cheerio was beginning on that hot soup that
was good for “cold fleet,” and:

“Hi you!” he growled, “pack down your grub P. D. Q. Then git to hello
to the bunkhouse. Git your traps together. Report at the house for
your pay. You’re fired!”




CHAPTER XIV


At the ranch house, P. D. McPherson alternately paced the living-room,
the hall, the dining-room, the kitchen and the back and front verandahs.

Fourteen times he called for his daughter and twice fourteen times he
had roared for his son.

The morning’s mail (brought on horseback seven miles from Morley
post-office by an Indian) contained a letter that P. D. had been
waiting for all of that summer. It was brief and to the point almost
of curtness. It consisted of one line scrawl of a certain famous chess
player in the City of Chicago and was to the effect that the writer
would be pleased to accept the challenge of the Canadian player for
November 30th of the current year.

If P. D. had drunk deeply and long of some inebriating cup he could not
have felt any more exhilarated than after reading that epistle.

On November thirtieth--scarce two months off--he, P. D. McPherson,
chess champion of Western Canada, was to go to the City of Chicago, in
the State of Illinois, there to sit opposite the greatest chess player
in the United States of America and at that time demonstrate to a
skeptical world that Canada existed upon the map.

He’d show ’em, by Gad! Yanks! (The average Canadian refers to the
average American as “Yank” or “Yankee” regardless of the part of the
States of which he may be a resident. P. D. knew better than to refer
to a Chicagoan as a Yank, but had acquired the habit, and in his heart
he was not fussy over designations.)

Yanks! Hmph! P. D. snorted and laughed, and G.D.’ed the race heartily
and without stint. Not that he had any special animus against
Americans. That was just P. D.’s way of expressing himself. Besides
he was still smarting over having been ignored and snubbed for long
by those top-lofty, self-satisfied, condescending lords of the chess
board. For two years P. D. had banged at the chess door and only now
had he at last been reluctantly recognised. He’d show ’em a thing or
two in chess.

Yanks as chess players! It was to laugh! P. D. had followed every
printed game that had been published in the chess departments of
the newspapers and periodicals. His fingers had fairly itched many
a time when a game was in progress to indite fiery instructions to
the d-d-d-d-d-d-d-fool players, who were alternately attacking and
retreating at times when a trick could be turned that would end
hostilities at a single move. P. D. knew the trick. It was all his own.
He had invented it; at least, he thought he had invented it, and had
been angry and uneasy at a suggestion put out by a recent player that
it was a typically German move.

Two months! Two months in which to practice up and study for the mighty
contest, which might mean that the winner would be the chosen one in
an international tournament that would include all the nations of the
world. Ah ha! He’d waste not a precious moment. He’d begin at once! At
once!

“Hilda! Hilda! Hilda! Where’s that girl? Hilda! Hi, you there,
G-- D-- you Chum Lee, where’s Miss Hilda?”

“Me no know, bossie. Chum Lee no sabe where Miss Hilda go on afternoon.”

“Didn’t you see her go by?”

“No, bossie, me no see Miss Hilda. Mebbe she like go see him blandie”
(brand).

“Beat it over to the corral and tell her I want her--at once--at once!”

“Hilda! Hil-l-lda!”

He made a trumpet of his hands and roared his daughter’s name through
it.

“Hil-lda! Where in the name of the almighty maker of mankind is that
girl! Hilda!”

Yanks indeed! Dog damn their souls! Their smug satisfaction with
themselves; their genius for bragging and boasting; their ignorance
concerning any other part of the earth save the sod on which their own
land stood--their colossal self-esteem and intolerance--all this was
evidence of an amazing racial provincialism that P. D. proposed to
expose and damn forevermore.

“Hilda! Damn it all, where are you?”

“Hilda! You hear me very well, miss!”

Tramp, tramp, tramp. Round and round the house, inside and out, hands
twitching behind, holding still to that precious letter.

“Sandy! Sandy! Sa-nn-n-ndy! Where’s that boy gone?”

Tramp, tramp again and:

“Sandy! You come here, you red-haired young whipper-snapper--You hear
me very well. Sandy! Sandy! San-n-dy!”

No reply. It was evident that the house was empty and his son and
daughter nowhere within hearing unless in hiding. Chum Lee scurried
past back from the corrals, and apparently unconscious of the amazed
and furious string of blistering epithets and cusses that pursued him
from his “bossie.”

From the direction of the corrals a din surged, the moaning, groaning
calves and the mothers penned in the neighbouring field. These cries
were not music to the ears of the formerly proud owner of the cattle.
It mattered not this day to P. D. whether a brand was slapped on true
or banged on upside down; whether it were blurred or distinct. It
mattered not whether the dehorning shears had snipped to one inch of
the animal’s head as prescribed by law, or had clipped down into the
skull itself. He paid a foreman crackajack wages to look after his
cattle. If he could not do the work properly, there were other foremen
to be had in Alberta. P. D. had no desire whatsoever to go to the
corrals and witness the operations. His place at the present time was
the house, where one could occupy their minds with the scientific game
of chess.

“Sandy! Sandy!”

Back into the house went the irate P. D. The chess table was jerked
out and the chess board set up. P. D. propped up a book containing
illustrations of certain famous chess games, before him, and set his
men in place.

P. D. began the game with a dummy partner, making his own move first
and with precise care his partner’s. Fifteen minutes of chess solitaire
and then out again, and another and louder calling for his son and his
daughter.

No doubt they were at the corrals, dog blast their young fool souls.
What was the matter with that bleak nit-wit of a foreman? He was hired
to run a ranch, and given more men for the job than that allotted by
any other ranch for a similar work. What in blue hades did he mean
by drawing upon the house for labor? The son and daughter of P. D.
McPherson were not common ranch hands that every time a bit of branding
or rounding-up was done they should be pulled out to assist with the
blanketty, blistering, hell-fire work.

Raging up and down, up and down, through the wide verandah and back
through the halls and into the living-room again and again at the
unsatisfactory chess solitaire, the furious old rancher was in a black
mood when voices outside the verandah caused him to jerk his chin
forward at attention. The missing miscreants had returned!




CHAPTER XV


“San-ndy!”

The three on the verandah jumped. That crisp summons, that peculiar
inflection meant but one thing. Chess! Sandy cast a swift agonized
glance about him, seeking an immediate mode of escape. He was slipping
cat-footed and doubled over along the back of the swinging couch on the
verandah, when again came the imperative summons, this time with even
more deadly significance.

“Sandy! In here, sir!”

“Yessir, I’m comin’, sir.”

Now it happened that the foreman of O Bar O had come especially over
to the ranch house, accompanied by the son and daughter of P. D. to
announce to his employer the discharge of Cheerio. It was an ironclad
rule of O Bar O that no “hand” upon the place should be dismissed
without his case first being examined before the final court of
judgment in the person of P. D. This was merely a formality, for P.
D. was accustomed to O. K. the acts of his foreman. Nevertheless, it
was one of the customs that could not be ignored. What is more, a man
reported for his final pay to the supreme boss of the ranch.

It was also the law at O Bar O that such discharges and reports should
be made after the working hours in the field. In the present instance,
Bully Bill had harkened to the advice of his assistant and discharged
Cheerio at the noon hour. O Bar O, he contended, could not afford to
risk its prestige by having in its employ for even a few more hours
a man who had acted at the corrals as had the Englishman. Therefore,
having put his men back to work at the corrals, Bully Bill had come to
the house to report to his employer.

That Sandy summons was unmistakable. The noble and ancient game was
about to be played. It was well-known lese majeste to interrupt when
the game was in progress. Bully Bill and the young McPhersons looked at
each other in consternation and dismay.

Sandy, in his ragged and soiled overalls, one of the “galluses” missing
and the other hitched in place with a safety pin, groaned aloud, then
shuffled unwillingly into the house. Rebellion bristled and stuck
out of every inch of the reluctant and disgusted boy. At that moment
Sandy loathed chess above everything else on earth. It was a damfool
game that no other boy in the country was forced to play. Sandy could
not see why he should be singled out as a special victim. Sullenly he
seated himself before the hated board. Blindly he lifted and moved a
black pawn forward two paces. His father’s eyes snapped through his
glasses.

“Since when did it become the custom for the Black to move before the
White?” he demanded fiercely.

Sandy coughed and replaced the pawn. His father took the first move
with his white pawn.

Now when Sandy McPherson entered thus unwillingly into the ranch house
he passed not alone into the place. Close upon his heels, silently
and unseen by the absorbed master of the house, followed the yellow
dog, Viper. He slunk in fact along behind chairs and tables, for well
Viper knew he was on forbidden and hostile territory. Reaching the
great, overstuffed sofa that stood in soft luxury before the big stone
fireplace, Viper leaped soundlessly aboard, and a moment later was
snuggled well down among the numerous sofa pillows and cushions that
were the creations of Hilda’s feminine hands.

P. D. McPherson had his scientific opinion touching upon the subject of
dogs. To a limited extent, he had experimented upon the canine race,
but he had not given the subject the thought or the work bestowed on
his other subjects, as he considered animals of this sort were placed
on earth more for the purpose of ornament and companionship rather
than for utilization by the human race, as in the case of horses,
cattle, pigs, etc. O Bar O possessed some excellent examples of P.
D.’s experiments. He had produced some quite remarkable cattle dogs, a
cross between collie and coyote in looks and trained so that they were
almost as efficient in the work of cutting out and rounding-up cattle
as the cowboys. These dogs had been duly exhibited at the Calgary Fair
but the judgment upon them had so aroused the wrath of the indignant
P. D. that after a speech that became almost a classic in its way,
because of the variety and quality of its extraordinary words, P. D.
departed from the fair ground with his “thoroughbred mongrels” as the
“blank, blank, blank fool judges” had joshingly named them. P. D. was
not finished with his dog experiments “by a damn sight.” However, his
subjects at this time were held in excellent quarters pending the time
when P. D. would renew work upon them. Occasionally, said dogs were
brought forth for the inspection of their creator, but even they, good
products and even servants of O Bar O, knew better than to intrude into
his private residences.

Of Viper’s existence at the present stage in his career, P. D. was
totally ignorant. He supposed, in fact, that this miserable little
specimen of the mongrel race had been duly executed, for such had been
his stern orders, when at an inconvenient time Viper had first thrust
himself upon the notice of his master’s father.

P. D. knew not that such execution was stayed through the weakness
of the executioner, who had hearkened to the heartrending pleas for
clemency and mercy that had poured in a torrent from Sandy, supported
by the pitying Hilda. Sandy had pledged himself moreover to see that
his dog was kept out of sight and sound of his parent.

Of all his possessions, Sandy valued Viper the most. Ever since the
day when he had traded a whole sack of purloined sugar for the ugly
little yellow puppy, Sandy had loved his dog. He had “raised” him “by
hand,” in the beginning actually wrapping the puppy up in a towel and
forcing him to suckle from a baby bottle acquired at the trading-post
especially for that purpose. All that that dog was or would be, he owed
to Sandy McPherson. Sandy considered him “a perfect gentleman” in many
ways, one who could “put it all over those pampered kennel fellows.”
Viper could bark “Thank you” for a bone as intelligibly as if he had
uttered the words; he could wipe his mouth, blow his nose, suppress a
yawn with an uplifted paw, and weep feelingly. He could dance a jig,
turn somersaults, balance a ball on his nose, and he could laugh as
realistically as a hyena. Not only was he possessed of these valuable
talents, but Viper had demonstrated his value by services to the ranch
which only his master fully appreciated. The barns, when Viper was at
hand, were kept free of cats and poultry and other stock that had no
right to be there, and Sandy’s job of bringing home the milk cows in
the morning and evening was successfully transferred to Viper. Sandy
had merely to say:

“Gawn! Git ’em in,” and the little dog would be off like a flash,
through the barnyard, out into the pasture, and up the hill to where
cattle were grazing. He would pick out from among them the ten head of
milk stock, snap at their heels till they were formed into a separate
bunch, and drive them down to the milk sheds.

Viper’s continued existence at O Bar O, therefore, was most desired
by his master. By some miracle, due largely to P. D.’s absorption in
his own important affairs, the little dog had escaped the notice or
especial observation of Sandy’s father. Once he had indeed looked
absently at the dog as he passed at the heels of Sandy, and he had
actually remarked at that time on the “Indian dogs” that were about the
place, and that should be kept toward the camps.

In the hurry and rush of events of this especial day, Viper was
forgotten, and the excited Sandy had omitted to lock him up in the
barn, as was his custom, when he went to the house.

So far as P. D. was concerned, Viper was a dead dog. Very much alive in
fact, however, was Sandy’s dog, as curled up on that couch of luxury
he bit and snapped at elusive fleas that are no respectors of places
and things and thrive on a dog’s back whether he be lying upon a
bed of straw or sand or, as in the present instance, curled up on an
overstuffed sofa.

Meanwhile, as Sandy made his unwilling moves, and while Viper
disappeared into the land of oblivion through the medium of dog sleep,
a whispered council of war was held on the front verandah.

“Go in and speak to him now. The game may run on till midnight. You
know Dad! If, by any chance, Sandy puts up a good fight and prolongs
the game, he’ll have it to do all over again and again until Dad beats
him hard, and if Sandy plays a poor game, then he’ll be as sore no
one’ll be able to go near him and he’ll make me take his place. So
there you are. You may as well take the bull by the horns right now,
and hop to it.”

The woman tempted and the man did fall.

The foreman of O Bar O, endeavouring to put firmness and resolution
into his softened step, took his courage into his hands and entered
the forbidden presence of the chess players. Hat in hand, nervously
twisting it about, tobacco shifted respectfully into one cheek, this
big, lanky gawk of a man cleared his throat apologetically. Only
a slight twitch of one bushy eyebrow betrayed the fact of P. D.’s
irritated knowledge of the presence of intruders.

“Dad!” Hilda’s voice trembled slightly. She appreciated the gravity of
interrupting her father’s game, but Hilda was in that exalted mood of
the hero who sacrifices his own upon the altar of necessity and duty.
What had occurred at the corrals was a climax to her own judgment and
condemnation of the prisoner before the bar.

P. D. affected not to hear that “Dad!” On the contrary, he elaborately
raised his hand, paused it over a knight, lifted the knight and set it
from a black to a red square. Dangerous and violent consequences, Hilda
knew, were more than likely to follow should she persist. A matter of
life and death concerned not the chess monomaniac when a game was in
progress. Not till the old gambler could shout the final:

“Check to your king, sir! Game!” should man, woman, child, or dog dare
to address the players.

“Dad!”

P. D.’s hand, which had just left the aforementioned Knight, made a
curious motion. It closed up into a fist that shot into the palm of
his left hand. Up flashed bright old eyes, glaring fiercely through
double-lensed glasses. Up lifted the shaggy old head, jerked amazedly
from one to the other of the discomfited pair before him.

“What’s this? What’s this? Business hours changed, heh? Who the----”

Bully Bill cleared his throat elaborately and lustered a clumsy step
forward.

“Just come over to the house to tell you I’ve fired his royal nibs,
sir, and he’ll be over for his pay.”

“You’ve _what_?”

“Fired----”

Half arising from his feet, P. D. emitted a long, blood-curdling,
blistering string of original curses that caused even his hardened
foreman to blench. That raised voice, those unmistakable words of
wrath penetrated across the room and into the cocked ear of Sandy’s
sleeping dog. Full and exciting as the owner of Viper made all of his
days, the exhausted animal never failed, when opportunity offered, to
secure such rest as fate might allow him from the wild career through
which his master daily whirled him. Nevertheless that raised and testy
voice, for all Viper knew, might be directed against the one he loved
best on earth.

Viper turned a moist nose mournfully to the ceiling, and ere the last
of the scorching words of P. D. McPherson had left his lips, a low
moan of exquisite sympathy and pain came from the direction of the
overstuffed couch. Instantly the red, alarmed flush of guilt and terror
flooded the freckled face of the owner of the dog, as wriggling around
to escape that raised hand of his furious parent, Sandy added chaos to
confusion by upsetting the sacred chess board.

There was a roar from the outraged chess player, a whining protest
from the boy, ducking out of his way, and at that critical moment,
Viper sprang to the defence of his master. Planting himself before P.
D. McPherson, the little dog barked furiously and menacingly, and then
fled before the foot kicked out for dire punishment. Pandemonium broke
loose in that lately quiet room, dedicated to the scientific, silent
game of chess.

“Who let that dog in?” roared the enraged ranchman.

“He come in himself,” averred Sandy, quailing and trembling before his
father’s terrible glance, and casting a swift, furtive look about him
for an easy means of exit.

“Get him out! Get him out! Get him out!” shouted P. D., and, seizing a
golf club, he jabbed at the swiftly disappearing animal. For awhile,
dog and boy cavorted through the room, the one racing to safe places
under sofas and behind chairs and piano, and the other coaxing,
pleading, threatening, till at last, crawling cravenly along the floor
on his stomach, Viper gave himself up to justice.

“Hand him over to me,” demanded P. D.

“Wh-what’re you goin’ to do to him?” quavered the boy, an eye on
the niblick in P. D.’s hand, and holding his treasured possession
protectingly to his ragged breast.

“Never mind what I’m going to do. You hand that dog to me, do you hear
me, and do it G-- D-- quick!”

“Here he is then,” whimpered Sandy, and set the dog at his father’s
feet.

There was a flash, a streak across the room, and the dog had
disappeared into some corner of the great ranch house. The boy, with a
single glance at his father’s purpling face, took to his heels as if
his life were imperilled and followed in the steps of his dog.




CHAPTER XVI


Bully Bill stretched his long neck, and appeared to be troubled with
his Adam’s apple. His eye did not meet the ireful one of his employer.

“I came over to the house,” he repeated, with elaborate casualness, “to
tell you I’ve fired his royal nibs.”

“Fired what? Who? The King of the Jews or who in the name of chattering
crows do you mean?

“And you come to me at the hour of two-thirty in the afternoon to
announce the discharge of an employee of the O Bar O? Eh?”

“Wa-al, I reckon, boss, that O Bar O can’t afford to keep no
white-livered hound in its employ for even the rest of the day.”

“What crime has he committed?”

“Well, it ain’t a crime exactly, but--well, boss, I give him an easy
job to do--a kid’s job--Sandy could a done it, and I’m switched if he
didn’t double over and faint dead away at the first bat of the brand.
Never seen nothing like it in my life. At the first sniff! Why, a baby
could----”

“Do you wish me to understand that you fired an employee of my ranch
because he had the temerity to be _ill_?”

His irritation, far from being appeased, was steadily mounting.

“Dad,” interrupted Hilda, stepping forward suddenly. “It wasn’t
illness. It was worse than that. It was plumb cowardice.”

“Cowardice! Look in the dictionary for the proper definition of
that word, young woman. A man doesn’t faint from cowardice. He runs
away--hides--slinks off----”

“That’s what he did--in France. He confessed it when he came to. Tried
to excuse himself by saying it was constitutional. Just as if anyone
could be a constitutional coward. Bully Bill is right, Dad. O Bar O
cannot employ that kind of men.”

“Who is running this ranch?” demanded P. D., with rising wrath, thumping
upon the table, and upsetting the last of the chess men and then the
table itself.

“But, Dad----”

“Silence!”

Mutinously, the girl stood her ground, catching her breath in sobbing
excitement.

“But, Dad, you don’t understand----”

“One more word from you, miss, and you leave the room. One more word,
and we’ll cut out the gymkhana at Grand Valley next week.”

Turning to the foreman:

“Now, sir, explain yourself--explain the meaning of this damnation,
unwarranted intrusion into my house.”

Slowly, gathering courage as he went along, Bully Bill told the tale of
the branding.

P. D., finger tips of either hand precisely touching, heard him through
with ill-concealed impatience and finally snapped:

“And you adjudge a man a coward because of a few words said while in
a condition of semi-hysteria and delirium. Pi-shshsh! Any half-baked
psychologist would tell you that a man is not responsible for his
vague utterances at such a time. The evidence you adduce, sir, is
inconclusive, not to say preposterous, and damned piffling and
trifling. By Gad! sir, the rôle of judge and jury does not become you.
You’re hired to take care of my cows, not to blaggard my men. What’s
been this man’s work?”

“General hand, sir.”

“Efficient?”

“Ain’t no good at chores. He’s the bunk at fencing. Ain’t a bit o’ help
with implements; no account in the brush; ain’t worth his salt in the
hay field; but--” reluctantly the foreman finished, “--he’s a damned
good rider, sir. Best at O Bar O, and he’s O. K. with the doegies.”

“And you ask me to fire a first-class rider at a time when the average
’bo that comes to a ranch barely knows the front from the hind part of
an animal?”

“Dad,” interjected Hilda again, her cheeks aflame. “Look here, you may
as well know the truth about this man. He was engaged in the first
place as a joke--nothing but a joke, and because Bully Bill was late
at the haying and said we’d have to cut out the races this year, and
things were dull, and he took him on to liven things up, didn’t you,
Bill?”

Bully Bill nodded.

“Well, we’ve had tenderfeet before at O Bar O, and we’ve all taken a
hand stringing them, as you know, but this one was different. I--I
disliked him from the very first, and----”

“Ah, g’wan! You’re stuck on him, and you know it!”

Sandy, who had returned as far as the door, gave forth this disgusted
taunt. Upon him his sister whirled with somewhat of her father’s fury.

“How _dare_ you say that?”

“’Cause it’s true, and I told him so, too.”

“You told _him_--_him_--that I--I--I----”

Hilda was almost upon the verge of hysterics. She was inarticulate with
rage and excitement. The thought of Sandy confiding in Cheerio that she
was “stuck” on him was unendurable.

“Why so much excitement?” queried her father. “Do you realize that the
flood of words you have unharnessed would have force and power enough,
if attached to machinery, to run----”

“Do you think I’m going to stand for that--that--_mutt_ accusing me of
caring for a--_coward_?”

At that moment, a gentle cough at the door turned all eyes in its
direction. Natty and clean, in his grey English suit--the one he had
worn that first day he had come to O Bar O--Cheerio was standing in the
room looking about him pleasantly at the circle of expressive faces. No
sooner had the girl’s angry glance crossed his own friendly one, than
out popped the despised word:

“Cheerio!” said Cheerio.

His glance rested deeply upon Hilda for a moment, and then quietly
withdrew. Sandy, whose allegiance to his former hero and oracle had
been somewhat shattered by the corral incidents, suddenly grinned at
his friend and favoured him with a knowing wink.

“Aw, she’s hot under the collar just ’cause I told her I told you about
her being stuck on you.”

“_I_--_I_--just fancy _me_ stuck on him! Just as if _any_ one could be
stuck on someone they--they--despised and hated and----”

The words were pouring out breathlessly from the almost sobbing Hilda.
Cheerio regarded her gravely and then looked away. At sight of the
upturned chess table, he whistled softly, stepped forward and set it in
place. Stooping again, he picked up the scattered chessmen and then, to
the amazement of all in that room, Cheerio calmly proceeded to set the
men precisely in place upon the board. As he put the King, the Queen,
the Bishop, the Knight and the Castles into their respective places,
a curious expression, one of amazement not unmixed with joy, quivered
over the weatherbeaten face of old P. D. McPherson. When the pawns were
upon their squares, almost mechanically the Chess Champion of Western
Canada pulled up his chair to the table. Over his glasses he peered up
at the Englishman.

“You play chess, sir?”

“A bit.”

A speck of colour came out on either of the old man’s high cheek bones.

“Very good, sir. We will have a game.”

“Awfully sorry, sir. I’d jolly well like a game, b-b-but the fact is,
I’m--er--what you call in Canada--hiking.”

“Hiking--nothing,” muttered P. D., as he set his own side into place.
“I allow you the Whites, sir. First move, if you please.”

“Awfully sorry, sir, b-but the fact is, I’m d-d-d-discharged, you know.
Mr. Bully Bill here----”

“Damn Bully Bill! I’m the boss of the O Bar O! Your move, sir.”

Cheerio blinked, hesitated, and then lifted his pawn and set it two
paces forward.

Slowly, carefully, P. D. responded with a black pawn in the same
position.

Cheerio made no second move. He was leaning across the board, looking
not at the chessmen but straight into the face of his employer.

“Tell you what I’ll do, governor” (he had always referred to P. D. as
“governor”) “I’ll play you for my job. What do you say? One game a
night till I’m beat. I’ll work through the day as usual, and play for
my job at night. There’s a sporting proposition. How about it?”

A snort came from Sandy and a smile from Hilda.

“The poor simp!” audibly chuckled the boy. Hilda was laconic and to the
point:

“Hm! You’ll be hitting the trail in short order.”

P. D. merely looked over his glasses with a jerk, nodded and grunted:

“Very good, sir, I accept your terms. Your move!”

Cheerio’s Knight made its eccentric jump, and after a long pause the
ranchman’s Bishop swept the board. Cheerio put forward another pawn,
and down came P. D.’s Queen. His opponent’s King was now menaced from
two sides, on the one by P. D.’s Queen and on the other by his Bishop.
Cheerio’s expression was blank, as after a pause he neatly picked up
and put another pawn one pace forward. P. D. was holding his lower
lip between forefinger and thumb, a characteristic attitude when in
concerned thought. There was deep silence in the room, and it was
fifteen minutes before the ranchman made his next move; ten before the
Englishman made his.

Hilda’s breath was suspended, her cheeks scarlet, her eyes wide with
excitement, while Sandy, his mouth agape, watched the moves with
unabated amazement.

Bully Bill, meanwhile, discreetly departed. Once Cheerio had taken
his seat opposite the old chess monomaniac his foreman realized that
“the jig was up.” He did not admit defeat to his men. That would have
been a reflection upon his own influence at O Bar O. Bully Bill gave
forth the information that Cheerio had given a satisfactory explanation
of his action at the branding, and the “confession” which Holy Smoke
had overheard must’ve been “a sort of a mistake. Because there ain’t
nothing to it,” said Bully Bill, chewing hard on his plug, and avoiding
the amazed eye of the injured Ho.

Meanwhile, in the living-room of O Bar O, two more moves had been made
and the chessmen faced each other in an intricate position for the one
side. With eyes bulging, Sandy leaned forward, staring at the board,
while Hilda drew her chair close to her father’s. Slowly there dawned
upon the son and daughter of P. D. McPherson--no mean chess players,
despite their aversion for the game--the realization that a trap was
being deliberately forged to close in upon their father’s forces. Hilda
wanted to cry out, to warn her old Dad, but a pronounced twitching of
P. D.’s left eye revealed the fact that he was sensitively cognizant
of his danger. Hilda’s hand crept unconsciously to her throat, as if
to still her frightened breathing, as she gazed with incredulous eyes
at the diabolical movements of the man she now assured herself she
bitterly and positively detested and loathed.

There was a long silence. Another move and a longer pause. P. D.’s
trembling old hand poised above a Knight. Pause. A pawn slipped to the
left of the Knight. The Knight half raised--no place to go--sacrificed.
Out came the Queen. A pause. The Englishman’s Bishop swept clear across
the board and took up a cocky position directly in the path of P. D.’s
King. He moved to take the Bishop, saw the Castle in line, retreated,
and found himself facing Cheerio’s Queen. Another move, and the Knight
had him. A very long pause. A search for a place to go. P. D.’s dulled
eyes gazed through their specs at Cheerio, and the latter murmured
politely:

“Check to your king, sir. Game.”

The dazed P. D. stared in stunned silence at the board, forefinger and
thumb pinching his underlip.

“Holy Salmon!” burst from Sandy. A sob of wrath came from the big chair
where sat the daughter of the former chess champion.

“Awfully sorry, governor,” said Cheerio, gently.

P. D. reached across a shaking old hand.

“I congratulate you, sir,” said the defeated one. “You play a damned
good game.”

For the first time in his chess life, P. D. McPherson had been soundly
licked.




CHAPTER XVII


The news fled like a prairie fire. From ranch to ranch, from the
trading stores that dotted the foothill country, up to Banff, where P.
D.’s packhorses were carrying the tourists into the supposed wilds of
the Rocky Mountains and down to the cowtown of Cochrane. Here the news
was received with consternation and amazement.

P. D.’s name was a household word. His cattle, his grain, so ran
the legend, had made this part of the country famous throughout the
civilized world. And as for chess: The country people knew but vaguely
the meaning of the word; but they did know at least that it was
associated in some illustrious way with their distinguished neighbour,
P. D. McPherson. He was a Chess Champion. “Champion” was a name to
conjure with. It put P. D.’s name upon several occasions into the
newspapers; in obscure parts where they printed riddles and conundrums
and funny stuff for children, but also whenever P. D.’s exploits at
the cattle fairs were summed up in the local press, and his picture
appeared on the front page and he gave out interviews predicting the
ruin of the country or its ascendancy above all other countries in the
world, there was always a line included about P. D. being the Chess
Champion of Western Canada and potential champion of all of Canada.

Even the riders on the range and the crews at the road and lumber camps
stopped each other to gossip about the incredulous news.

“Did you hear about P. D.?” one would inquire.

“No, what about him?”

“He got beat. Beat at chess.”

“G’wan!”

“Sure did.”

“You don’t say. Who done it? Betchu some Yank come on over from the
States, huh?”

“Not on your life. One of his own men done it.”

“G’wan! Who?”

“Well, that English fly, the Cheerio Duke they call him, the one they
picked off the road in July--he licked the pants off P. D.”

“You don’t say. _Him!_ Why, he’s nothing but a tenderfoot. He don’t
know nothing.”

“Don’t he, though! That’s where you’re off your bat. What he don’t
know, ain’t worth knowing, believe me.”

“Well, you hear all sorts o’ tales about him. Who is he, anyway?”

“Dunno, and nobody else does. But one thing’s sure, he licked P. D.
Licked him the first time they played, and he’s kept it up every night
since. They’s a bet on. He’s to hold his job till P. D. licks him, and
from the looks of things ’pears like he’s got a permanent job. And
say--I heard that the old man ses he ain’t goin’ over to the States to
play for championship there until he’s trimmed Cheerio chap.”

“I want to know! The Calgary _Blizzard_ had a whole column ’bout him
goin’ over to the States to beat the Champion there.”

“Well, he’s got his hands full right here.”

“Guess I’ll ride over and take a look-in at O Bar.”

“Not a chance. Say, the old man’s sore as a dog. Ain’t lettin’ a soul
into the house. Has himself shut in and ain’t taking a bite of air
and hardly any eats. Just gone plumb crazy on that chess game. It’s
something like checkers, only it ain’t the same. You got to use your
nut to play it.”

“Well, here’s to old P. D. Hope he wins.”

“Here’s to him, as you say, but he ain’t got a chance. That Cheerio
duke ain’t no amachoor.”

Alberta, as all the world is beginning to know, is a gambler’s
paradise. In this great boom land, where every day brings its new
discoveries of gold, oil, coal, silver, salts, platinum and all the
minerals this world of ours hides within herself, one tosses a penny
on life itself. From all parts of the world come people whose lives
and hopes are dependent upon games of chance, be they of the board, a
pack of cards, the stock market, the oil fields or the great gamble
of the land. Gambling is instinctive and intuitive in Alberta. A
chance is taken on anything. The man in the city and the man upon the
land throwing the dice of fate upon the soil are equally concerned in
gambling.

Cheerio’s proposition, therefore, and the way in which it was rumoured
he continued to beat the veteran chess player appealed to the sporting
sense of the country. It was not long before money was up and bets were
on the players. News of the game swept down finally to Calgary, and a
sporting editor dispatched a reporter upon the job. The reporter liked
his assignment first rate, since it included a trip into the foothills
and an indefinite leave of absence. He was not, however, received with
open arms at O Bar O.

Hilda, when he revealed the fact that he was a reporter, snapped the
screen door closed, and only after the most diplomatic argument on the
part of the newspaper man finally consented to announce his presence at
O Bar O to her father.

“Just tell him,” said the reporter, “that I only want a word or two
from him, and I’ll not print a line that he doesn’t approve of.”

To this perfectly amicable message, P. D. (invisible but plainly heard
shouting his explosive reply) returned:

“No, G-- D-- it. I’ll see no snooping, spying, G-- D-- reporter. I’ll
have none of ’em on my place. I’ll have ’em thrown off. This is no
public place, and I’ll have no G-- D-- reporter trespassing upon my
G-- D-- privacy.”

Hilda, back at the screen door:

“My father says he doesn’t want to see you, and if I were you, I’d beat
it, because we’ve got some pretty husky men on this place and you don’t
look any too strong. There’s no telling what might happen to you, you
know.”

“Will you just ask your father, then, if he will give me, through
you, a statement as to the chances of Canada winning the World
Championship, either through him or his present opponent. What we are
chiefly interested in--that is to say, the readers of the Calgary
_Blizzard_--is whether or not we are to have the Cup for Canada. It
doesn’t matter whether Mr. McPherson or his opponent gets it for us.”

“Oh, doesn’t it, though!” Hilda could have hit him with pleasure. So
it didn’t matter to the big, heartless public whether her Dad or that
Englishman won or not.

“Well, would you mind asking your father just that?”

Hilda, inside:

“Dad, he wants to know whether either you or--_him_” (Hilda referred
always to Cheerio as “him” or “he”) “will be going to Chicago for the
tournament now.”

“You tell that bloody young news hound that he’ll do well to clear off
the place in a damn quick hurry, or we’ll make it a damned sight hotter
for him than the place he’s eventually headed for.”

Hilda, back at screen door:

“My father says for you to clear off the place, and I advise you to,
too. You’ve a nerve to come here to get stuff to print against my
father in the paper. I’d just like to see you dare to print anything
about us. It’s none of the newspapers’ business, and my father will
win, anyway.”

“Thank you. I’m glad to have that line on the game. Did he win last
night?”

“I’m not going to answer a single question. We don’t want a single
thing to get in the papers.”

“But it’s already been in the paper.”

“What?”

“Here you are--half a column story.”

Hilda came out on to the porch, and seized and scanned the paper. Her
face burned as she read, and the hot, angry tears arose in her eyes.
How dared they publish for all the world to read that her old dad was
being beaten each night by that Englishman? She whirled around on the
inoffensive reporter.

“Who wrote that beastly stuff? It’s a damned shame. Just goes to show
what your old newspapers are. Did you write it?”

“No, no,” hastily denied the reporter. “I was only assigned to the
job to-day. That’s some outside stuff telephoned in, probably by one
of your neighbours. I’m here to follow up--to get a special story, in
fact. And look here, Miss McPherson--you’re Miss McPherson, aren’t
you?--well, look here, it’s better for us to get the dope directly from
yourselves than have to make it up. I’m here to get a story, and I’m
going to get it.”

“Well, let me tell you, you’ll have some sweet time getting it.”

“I intend to stay here till I do.”

“Here on our steps? I’d like to see you.”

“Well, not exactly on the steps--but on the job, at all events, I’ll
camp down the road by the river, and I can cover the story just as well
from there.”

Hilda threw him a look of withering scorn. Pushed the screen door open,
and banged it, as well as the inside door, in the reporter’s face.

He stood in thought a moment on the steps and then he jotted down:

 “Beautiful young daughter of P. D. McPherson on guard over father.
 Inherits famous disposition. Declares that her father will win.
 Intimates that he, not his hitherto victorious opponent, will go to
 Chicago----”

At this juncture, and while he was jotting down the notes anent Hilda
McPherson, Cheerio came up the steps and crossed the verandah toward
the front door, followed by Sandy, who, much to the bitter indignation
of his sister, was once again the Englishman’s satellite and admirer.

“Good evening,” said the reporter, cordially.

“Hello!” returned the unsuspicious Cheerio, and returned the grip of
the newspaper man’s hand.

“I wonder if you could give me some information about this Englishman
who’s playing opposite Mr. P. D. McPherson for the Western Championship
and----”

“Wh-wh-wh-wh-wh-what f-f-for?” stammered Cheerio, taken aback by the
question.

“I’m from the Calgary _Blizzard_ and----”

“G-g-g-good God!”

“If you know the man who----”

“Gee! He’s him hisself!” chortled Sandy.

Cheerio was punching the electric bell persistently. Hilda, hurrying
at the summons, opened the door inside, cast a haughty look from the
reporter to Cheerio, and then reluctantly unhooked the latch and let
the latter in. She closed both doors again with a snap.

Sandy, who had not followed Cheerio into the house, stood grinning
up at the reporter, and the latter was seized with an inspiration.
He returned the jeering stare of P. D.’s son with a man-to-man look
of confidence. Nonchalantly, he brought forth a cigarette case and,
extending it carelessly to Sandy, invited him to have one. Sandy, whose
young lips had never touched the forbidden weed, helped himself with
ostentatious carelessness and even accepted the light tendered from
the other’s half finished stub.

“In a hurry?” asked the newspaper man.

“Nope.”

“Suppose we sit over here.”

The reporter indicated the steps, and Sandy leaned back against the
pillar with the cigarette alternately between his two fingers or
between his young lips.

“You’re P. D. McPherson’s son, are you not?”

“Yeh.”

“Well, what about this Englishman? I wonder if you can tell me
something about him.”

“Sure,” said Sandy, ignoring a sudden quaking at the pit of his
stomach, and blowing out an elaborate whiff of smoke. “Sure, I c’n tell
you all about him.”




CHAPTER XVIII


If the orders issued from headquarters (viz. P. D. McPherson) had been
implicitly obeyed, the life of the newspaper man would have been most
uncomfortable. Even as it was, he was prudent enough to give the house
a wide berth. “Dunc” Mallison was fond of fishing, and his assignment
was in the nature of a vacation for him. He possessed a “dinky” little
flivver, whose front seat turned back on hinges, transforming the
interior into a tolerably comfortable bed, a la Pullman. Scouting along
the banks of the Ghost River, which bounded one side of the O Bar O
ranch, the newspaper man found an ideal place for a camp, not far from
the cave where Cheerio painted of a Sunday in secret.

Though “Dunc” fished the greater part of the day, he nevertheless
dispatched bulletins to his paper in town, and began work on a
feature story concerning P. D., the mysterious Cheerio, Hilda
McPherson, “beautiful daughter of the Chess Champion and famous
rancher,” Sandy, the wise young son and heir of O Bar O, and the
various other folk who made up that temperamental ranch. The reporter
depended not upon personal interviews with P. D. himself after that
first explosive-forced session, through the medium of the evidently
belligerent Hilda. Sandy, the guileless and the garrulous, himself
interested in the attractions of the Ghost River canyon, was a mine of
information upon which the reporter drew at length. Sandy was unable to
resist the cigarette case, nor did the resulting tumult in his stomach
of that first day’s indulgence prevent his appearance at the newspaper
man’s camp and the reindulgence in the noxious weed, which his father
had once vehemently declared was “purely poisonous.”

Besides Sandy, Mallison had made the acquaintance of Cheerio. The
latter, on his way to his “cave studio,” had paused at the sight of the
reporter, fishing in the forbidden waters of the Ghost River. Now P.
D. had nailed at the Bridge on the Banff Road, large signs, warning
all aspiring fishermen to keep away from the Ghost River, and these
prominent notices were signed “P. D. McPherson, Fish and Game Warden.”
Cheerio, an employee of the O Bar O, was puzzled for a moment what to
do in the circumstances, but the triumphant smile of the reporter as
he held up three shining-bodied trout, disarmed the Englishman, who
grinned back in sympathetic response, and a moment later was sitting on
the bank beside the trespasser, filling his pipe from his old rubber
pouch.

All of that quiet Sunday morning, the two fished and smoked, and though
their conversation practically consisted of monosyllabic remarks about
the water or the possibility of there being a pool farther up the river
where their chances might be even better and grunts of satisfaction or
exclamations of delight when something nibbled or bit at the end of
the lines, almost unconsciously a quiet feeling of comradeship grew up
between them, and each took the measure of the other and knew him for a
kindred spirit.

In the middle of the afternoon, they counted with pride the results of
the day’s work. Cheerio made a “rock stove” and built a fine bonfire
in it, while Mallison cleaned and prepared the fish. While the bacon
was spluttering upon the pan, Sandy came down through the bush, and
squatting down before the reporter’s improvised table of an upturned
suit case, he sniffed the odour of frying bacon hungrily and said
vehemently, as his hands rested upon his stomach, “Oh, boy!” Mallison
was an excellent cook, and Cheerio and Sandy were excellent eaters and
they did justice to the fare set before them by the camper.

After the meal, the three “chinned,” as Sandy expressed it, until the
deepening of the sun glow showed the end of the approaching day, and
Sandy’s drowsy head slipped back upon the grass and his questions came
irregularly and presently not at all. Then Cheerio dumped his pipe,
shook the half-asleep boy, and said:

“Come on, old man. Time to get back,” and Sandy sat up with a start,
rubbed his eyes, yawned, and unwillingly arose and moved toward Silver
Heels, whose bridle had slipped down the slender trunk of the tree to
which it had been loosely tied.

At the ranch house, the nightly games proceeded. Sometimes a game would
end with a single night’s playing; at other times a game would drag
along for a week.

Cheerio had won three games in succession, when he suggested that his
opponent should be allowed a handicap. P. D. received this generous
suggestion with hostility and fury.

“What for? What for? Because you win a damnation game or two, do you
mean to insinuate that I am out of your class?”

“Nn-n-not at all, sir,” stammered Cheerio, “b-b-but you see, I’ve a
b-b-bit of an advantage over you, sir. B-b-been playing ch-chess for a
long time b-b-before coming to the ranch.”

It was true enough, P. D. admitted, that he was off his game on account
of having had “only children and amateurs” to play with. Nevertheless
he had not fallen to the damned handicap class. There were thirty-one
days in the month; they had been playing but ten inconclusive and
insignificant days; he was neither a cripple nor a moron and he’d give
his opponent a dashed stiff fight before he was through with him, and
he asked for no quarter whatsoever now.

The fierceness with which the old man took his well-meaning suggestion
caused Cheerio to stammer further explanations. During his recent stay
in Germany, so he said, he had played constantly, and the Germans were
excellent players.

This was the first intimation that he had been in Germany, and the
information passed over P. D.’s head as of no especial interest, but
Hilda’s eyes narrowed and she began to speculate upon the cause of his
presence in their late enemy’s country. From day to day, Hilda had
been hardening her heart more and more against him and she was ready
to believe the worst. Hilda had her opinion of a man who pretended to
be a cowpuncher, who wore a piece of jewellery dangling from a black
fob at his waist. She despised the type of man, so she told herself,
who carried a woman’s face in a locket. Only a “sissy” would do an
asinine and slushy thing like that, and sissies were not popular in the
ranching country. However, apparently unconscious of, or indifferent
to, her glance of scorn at the despised locket, he continued daily to
wear it, and quite often, right before her eyes, even lovingly and
tenderly toyed with it.

“What were you doing in Germany?” queried Sandy, pop-eyed with interest.

Cheerio moved uneasily, thrust his hand through his hair, looked dashed
and worried, and shook his head.

“_When_ were you there?” persisted Sandy. “Was it when the war was on?”

“Y-y-y-yes, I believe it was,” admitted Cheerio, uncertainly.

“Believe it was!” said Hilda. “Don’t you _know_ when you were there?”

“Well--” began Cheerio, miserably, “you see----”

He was interrupted by P. D., whose exasperated glare turned from his
son to his daughter.

“Is this a game of chess, or a quiz concerning international questions
touching upon the infernal recent war?”

“Chess, by all means, sir.” Thus Cheerio, placatingly, and with evident
relief at the change of subject. To Sandy, he promised:

“Tell you all about Germany some day, old man, wh-wh-when I’m
f-ff-feeling a b-bit more f-fit to tackle the s-ssubject.” To P. D.
persuasively:

“How about it, governor? It’s quite fair under the circumstances that I
should yield you something. What do you say to a Castle? One will do me
first-rate.”

“Sir, when I want quarter, I’ll ask for it. I’ll have you know that
I have never yet taken a dashed flippity handicap and when the time
comes for me to do that, by Gad! I’ll cease to play. I play, sir,
chess, and I want no damned favouritism. I’ll be placed under no
G--D--oblig--D--igation to any man.”

“Righto! Your move, sir.”

P. D. was indeed off his game. He was, moreover, the victim of a
creeping panic. He made longer pauses, debated a move for a solid hour,
in the meanwhile moving (in his head) every single man upon the board;
imagine their effect in such and such a position, then presupposing a
move which his opponent never intended to make, with a crafty quiver of
a bushy eyebrow old P. D. would move to the attack, when the position
of his King called for defense.

Once Cheerio made an obviously bad and wild move. This was when looking
up unexpectedly he had found Hilda regarding him, not with her usual
expression of hate and scorn, but with her dark eyes brimming with
something that brought a strange tug to his heart and dimmed his own
eyesight.

At that bad move, P. D.’s amazed eyes shot up above his glasses and
he coughed angrily. If his opponent were attempting to curry favour
with him by playing badly, he would receive no thanks. P. D. removed
Cheerio’s valuable Bishop which had been sacrificed by his absent
move, and snarled across the board:

“Damned curious move, sir. You wish to stop for to-night?”

“M-m-m-ore c-c-areful next time,” murmured Cheerio, stiffened by the
fact that Hilda had blinked the brightness out of her eyes, and her
chin was at a most disdainful angle. More careful he was; wary, keen
and cunning. Before the clock pointed to nine o’clock, Cheerio murmured
his firm, if slightly regretful:

“Check! Game!”

P. D. studied the board, his eyebrows twitching. His King was enclosed
on all sides. Not even a chance for stalemate. This, though Cheerio had
sacrificed his Bishop. P. D. blinked behind his glasses, cleared his
throat noisily and grunted:

“Four games for you, sir.” After another noisy clearing of throat:

“Tides turn, sir. Tides turn. He ‘laughs best who laughs last.’”

“Oh, rather,” agreed Cheerio eagerly.

Undemonstrative Hilda came behind her father, solicitous and sweet,
hovered above him a moment, sat on the arm of his chair, put her arm
about his shoulders, cuddled her warm cheek lovingly against the top of
his grey head. P. D. jerked up, shaking the embracing arms irritably
from his shoulders.

“Well, well, what’s this? What’s this? Stop pawing me,” he objected.
“What in the name of Holy Christmas are you whimpering about? I don’t
like it. Women’s tears are a scientific evidence of a weak intellect.
Stop sniffling, I say! Stop leaking on my neck! Damn dash it all! Get
away! Get away!”

Hilda’s rare tears, dropping like pearls down her russet cheeks,
described as leaks! In the presence of that man, stooping above the
chess board the better to hide the amused grin that would show despite
his best efforts, despite indeed the stony glare (if eyes moist with
running-over tears could stonily glare) that Hilda favoured him with.

She had no soft thoughts for him now. If she could have forgotten his
confession at the corrals, Hilda felt that she never, never could
forgive his treatment of her father.

Just what Hilda would have desired him to do in the circumstances,
cannot be said. She would have shared her father’s resentment had
Cheerio purposely played a poor game, in order to give the older man an
opportunity to win. Nevertheless she bitterly resented the fact that
his victories were crushing the spirit of the old chess warrior. There
had been some discussion--an idea, in fact, put out in the newspaper of
that miserable reporter who was camped down by the river, on the edge
of the O Bar O lands, that in the event of P. D.’s failure to beat the
Englishman that the latter should take his place in Chicago, so that
Canada’s chances of the world championship might be more likely assured.

That story, read by Hilda in the newspaper brought her from the camp by
Sandy, and jealously hidden from her father, caused the girl’s heart
to ache. She was intensely patriotic, was Hilda, and she desired, as
any good Canadian would, to see the championship wrested from the U.
S. A., but she loathed the thought of the wrester being Cheerio. She
had fondly hoped to see her father in that desired role. Her heart
coiled in tenderness about the crochetty, thorny old man, with his
stumbling moves. She could not recall when her father had played so
poorly or so uncertainly. He seemed to have lost all of his former
skill. His confidence in himself as a chess player was completely
gone. Anyone could have seen that after watching the old man play.
Even the winning of one game might have a good effect and restore P.
D.’s former confidence and craft. It was the daily absorption in the
game, and the constant losing which was having its bad psychological
effect upon him. Hilda knew that if P. D. failed to keep that Chicago
engagement, he would suffer the bitterest disappointment of his life.
She feared, indeed, it would seriously affect his health. He would lose
his interest in chess forever, and for P. D. to lose interest in chess
was tantamount to losing interest in life itself.




CHAPTER XIX


Autumn came late to Alberta that year, and in the month of November,
the cattle were still upon the range. The experienced cowman in Alberta
is never deceived by the long sun-laden days of however warm an Autumn.
Well he knows that the climate of Alberta is like unto a temperamental
woman whose tantrums may burst forth into fury even while her smile
lingers.

It is no uncommon thing in Alberta for a period of warm and balmy
weather to be electrically broken by amazing storms and blizzards which
spring into being out of a perfectly clear blue sky. Sometimes they
last but a few hours; sometimes they rage for a week, during which
period the effect is devastating to such of the cattlemen who have
their stock still upon the range. The cattle caught unawares in the
Autumn blizzard upon the open range will sometimes drift for miles
before it and have been known to perish literally by the hundreds when
trapped in coulie and gulch or driven for shelter against fence line,
lie buried body on body. Because, therefore, blizzards are dangerous
matters for the cattle to contend with, it is the custom in Alberta to
round up in the month of October, and some outfits round up as early as
September.

At O Bar O this year there was an atmosphere of restlessness and
uncertainty. The riders were all at hand, awaiting word from the chief
to set forth upon the Fall round-up; to bring in the cattle loose
on the winter range to the home fields, where they would find ample
protection under the long cattle sheds, and be given proper care and
attention over the winter months.

For more than a month streams of cattle belonging to other outfits had
been passing daily along the Banff Highway, coming down from the summer
range on the Indian or Forest Reserve, en route to their winter homes
on the ranches. This steadily moving army kept the O Bar O outfit on
tenter-hooks.

Bully Bill, chewing, spitting, moving restlessly about, eager to be
off, kept his own counsel so far as the murmuring crew were concerned;
but a suggestive question however humorously or pacifically couched
anent the matter of O Bar O round-up aroused his irritation and
profanity to a hair-splitting degree. The harassed foreman was beside
himself with anxiety and uncertainty. The sight of his men slouching
about the corrals and the yards aroused both his wrath and his grief.
He had worked his wits all through the month of October to find
sufficient work to keep his men going, but the work created by the
foreman was of a sort for which a rider feels only contempt. November
the fifth, and _riders_--cowpunchers of the great O Bar O ranch
hauling logs for fire wood or fence posts! Puttering with fencing,
brush-cutting--Indians’ work, by Gad! Snugging up the bunkhouse and
barn with dirt and manure for the winter! By Gravy! Those were jobs for
tenderfeet and Indians. Not for self-respecting riders. No wonder the
fellows were beginning to growl among themselves and cast black looks
at the ranch house. Two of them had quit the service of the old ranch,
two first-class men, at that, and Bully Bill noted them later upon the
Banff Highway, riding with a hated rival outfit.

The O Bar O prided itself on maintaining a prize crew of men. They
knew every inch of the range which extended over a hundred and fifty
thousand acres into the foothills of the Rocky Mountains. They knew the
brands of half the cattlemen in Alberta. They could pick out O Bar O
stock even when the brand was overgrown. At this time of year, skilled
labour of this sort were in great demand and could choose their own
jobs and demand their own price. If P. D. failed to find them regular
men’s jobs, his foreman knew that presently they would give ear to the
solicitations of rival outfits.

“Whispering Jake,” owner of the Bar D Ranch in the Jackass Valley,
kept his eye “peeled” always for O Bar O hands. Himself unable to keep
his men for long, he was satisfied to engage men trained at O Bar O
and discharged for one cause or another. “Whisper,” as he was more
popularly known--the name having been given to him in derision, because
he talked always at the top of his immense voice--had been over the
last few weeks, supposedly to look for a roan heifer, which he declared
had strayed on to O Bar O. Bully Bill knew very well that the cowman
had come, in fact, to look the O Bar O men over and to drop a hint of
the amount of advance he was willing to pay over what the men were
getting from P. D. “Whisper” made a point of going up $20 a month over
O Bar O wages; but he dropped his men as soon as the rush season was
over and left them high and dry for the winter. On the other hand, P.
D. did not raise his men’s wages in the busy seasons, but kept them
on all winter, regardless of slack periods and the drop of price in
cattle. At Christmas, moreover, if the stock were in healthy shape and
the profit of the business warranted it, O Bar O men received an annual
bonus.

This year “Whisper” had learned, through the medium of Holy Smoke, that
during the period when the hands of O Bar O were idling about waiting
for P. D. to give the order to set out upon the round-up, considerable
of the men’s wages had disappeared in poker games played in the
bunkhouse, and also at times in the newspaper man’s camp. The losers,
needing immediate funds, wavered toward the promises of the other
cattlemen, and especially toward “Whispering Jake.”

Chafe and fret and rage internally as Bully Bill might, no word came
forth from the ranch house, where for more than a month the Chess
Champion of Western Canada and the potential challenger of the world
had been closeted each night with Cheerio. When the third man left
the service of O Bar O, Bully Bill hearkened to the suggestion of his
assistant and accompanied by him paid a visit to the ranch house, where
he requested Chum Lee to ask Miss Hilda to come to the front door.

Hilda, in the living-room, intently watching every move upon the board,
looked up surprised at the whispered message of the Chinaman. Glad
to escape from what she clearly perceived was practically the end of
another game, the girl joined the foreman and his assistant upon the
verandah.

“Miss Hilda,” began Bully Bill, “Ho and I are here to-night to ask you
what’re we goin’ to do about the cattle? We can’t afford to wait no
longer.”

Hilda debated the matter, hand on chin. She was looking off quite
absently and suddenly she said to Bully Bill:

“Look here, Bill, if Dad had only moved his Knight instead of his
Castle, he could have checked his King from both ends of the board and
the jig would have been up. But Dad’s losing his nerve. He’s been beat
too often lately. I can just see him fairly breaking. It’s telling on
him. He’s an old man, my Dad is, and it’s terrible at his age to lose
confidence. So long as Dad knew he was the best player in the West, he
was just as cocky and spunky as a two-year-old, but you ought to see
him now. Bunched up in his chair, his old eyes dim, and the eyebrows
sticking out and his lip bulged. You’d hardly know him. Oh! if he had
only moved his Knight! I could just have slapped him when he lifted
that darned Castle. I tell you, Bill, Dad has simply _got_ to beat
him. He’s got to win at least one game. He’d never survive a permanent
defeat, and apart from Dad’s feelings, neither would I!”

“But, look-a-here, Miss Hilda, what’re we all agoin’ to do till then?
We can’t allow them cattle to be out till end of November. Why, them
cattle----”

“Oh, the cattle! The cattle! You give me a pain! Can’t you think of
anything but cattle, cattle, cattle? I guess there’s people in the
world as well as cattle, cattle!”

“So there are, miss, but at this time of year we got to think of the
cattle first, or they’ll get thinking with their own feet and first
thing we know they’ll wander off somewheres where you ain’t goin’ to
see them no more. Just let ’em get awandering up in them hills near
Broken Nose Lake, and I betchu that’ll be the last of ’em. Besides,
I heered down in Cochrane that there’s a sight of rustlers prowlin’
around this year, and the Indians ain’t any too scrupilous and when
they’re hungry, they ain’t depising no handy beef. Why, Jim Lame-Leg’s
doin’ time now for as slick a trick as ever I heerd of. Drive a cow
over a canyon, and then git the job of haulin’ her out, and when she’s
out she’s got her leg broke and she dies on his hand, and the owner
pays for the haulin’ of the cow out with the dead carcass. Lee caught
’im breakin’ a leg of one of the Lazy L’s stock and the boss told him
to go ahead and shoot her and keep the carcass, till someone put him
wise, and he had the Mounty down from the Reserve and Jim Lame-Leg’s
doin’ time now. If we don’t look out there’ll be others just as smart
as Jim and when we come to countin’ up stock, I betchu we’ll be out a
dozen head and more.”

“Well, it’s pretty bad, I know, but I won’t have Dad bothered about
cattle. He’s got enough on his mind right now. Anyway, I believe the
cattle are all right. What’s the matter with the herders, anyway?
They’re still out, aren’t they?”

“Herders! My foot! Excuse my cussing, miss, but when you talk of
herders,--my gosh! Herders ain’t a bit of good when the cold snap
comes. They keep in their tents and holler for the riders and that’s
what the riders is for.”

“But then, look at the weather this year. The cattle’ll get along for
a month yet, I do believe. Last year we had soft weather clear up till
Christmas. You know that and lots of cattle people were sorry they
hadn’t taken advantage of the weather and left the cattle on the range.
Anyway, they’ll come trailing home gradually themselves. Have all the
gates down.”

“Some’ll come home, sure enough, but we got a lot of new stuff and they
ain’t broke to this range. We threw some of the best stock you ever set
eyes on over to the north of Loon Lake. If a storm comes up----”

Holy Smoke, plaiting a long cowhide bullwhip had taken no part in
the conversation, but his ears were pricked up and his crafty eyes
scarcely left the girl’s face.

“I tell you what you’d better do,” suggested Hilda, “get your men
together and start on off. Dad won’t mind, and it’s the only thing to
do.”

“He won’t mind! He threw a million fits last year when I just gathered
in the lighter stuff before he said the word--stuff that was right at
the gate, at that. Orders is flat, nothing doing till he says the word.
He’s God Almighty on the O Bar O--begging your pardon, Miss Hilda--and
he wants every Son-of-a-Gun on the place to know it.”

“I’ll say so!” declared P. D.’s daughter with pride. “Go along in,
then, and put your cards on the table before him.”

“Nothing doing. Tried the job last week. He was out on this verandy
and he was walkin’ up and down, with his hands behind him and his head
dropped, and I ses to myself, ‘Mebbe he’s through. I’ll tuck in a word
edgeways now.’ So I slipped over and----”

“What did Dad say?”

Hilda was leaning forward, wide-eyed with delighted interest. Dad’s
utterances were always matters of the profoundest psychological
interest and pride to his admiring daughter.

Bully Bill lowered his voice confidentially.

“Miss Hilda, I ain’t got the nerve to repeat to you the curious string
of damns and cusses that your father give me and----”

Hilda laughed, a rippling girlish chuckle of genuine pride and delight.

“Isn’t Dad a perfect peach when he starts swearing? Don’t you love
it? It sounds so--so--healthy, somehow. Can’t he just rip out the
dandiest string of swear words you ever did hear? I’ll bet there’s
not another man in the entire country can cuss as my Dad can. Most of
’em run off just the ordinary common old damns, but Dad--why _Dad_
can--can--literally coin cuss words. I’d rather hear my Dad cuss
than--than--hear a prima donna sing. Why, do you know, the very first
word that either Sandy or I learned to speak was ‘damn’!”

Up tossed the young head. Hilda’s white teeth shone as her fresh
laughter rippled forth, and at that musical sound, and the sight of the
beautiful, laughing young woman before him, moved by an irresistible
impulse, Holy Smoke, who had been squatting at his work, jumped
restlessly to his feet. Hilda’s back was to the door. The hall was dark
behind her.

“Miss Hilda,” said Ho, ingratiatingly, “we thought as how if you would
ask your father and----”

“I? Not on your life. It’s all I can do to induce him to eat, let
alone talk of anything else in the world except chess--Kings, Queens,
Knights, Bishops, Rooks, Pawns! Gods and devils! Why did he make this
move, and what object he had in making that, and if he had done this
and hadn’t done that such and such a thing might have happened. Why,
Dad’s just plumb chess crazy!”

“You said it,” grinned Ho delightedly, eager to ingratiate himself
by agreeing with her, and at the same time voice his own thought
regardless of the consequences. “This ain’t no cattle ranch no longer.
It’s a loon ranch.”

“What’s that you say?”

Hilda’s voice had risen with excitement. Someone came out of the
living-room inside, and paused half-way across the hall on his way to
the verandah.

“I said--” repeated Holy Smoke, feeling a curious excitement and
delight in the flaming anger he had aroused--“I said that this ain’t no
longer a cattle ranch but a loon ranch.”

“How dare you say a thing like that about O Bar O. A lot you know about
ranching. You come on over from the States with your wind and your brag
and there’s no one believes a word you say. You dare to insinuate that
my father is----”

“When I said ‘loon,’ Miss Hilda, I wasn’t mentioning no names, but
s’long as you’re barkin’ up the wrong tree, I’ll tell you that I was
thinkin’ of that English fly, him that’s made all of the trouble here.
My hands is itchin’ to lariat him and take it out o’ his hide. You
say the word, Miss Hilda, and there’ll be a bunch of us turn the trick
to-night!”

At the mention of Cheerio, the dark blood had rushed into the face of
the girl. Her glance was full of contempt and hatred now.

“You, Holy Smoke! Yes, you’d _need_ to rope your man. I’m thinking
otherwise you’d have your hands D-d-d-d-d-full if you tried to tackle
him man to man with your hands, for, take it from me, he’d make you eat
your words and twist!”

Holy Smoke’s voice was husky:

“Look ahere, d’you mean to say----”

“Yes, I do mean to say--the very worst there is about you, and you can
get right off O Bar O the minute your month is up. I’ll undertake to be
responsible to my father and----”

Ho’s tongue searched his cheek. An ugly chuckle came from him and his
slow words caused the girl to draw back as if struck.

“Since you’re so stuck on him----”

Hilda was aware that the door behind her had opened and then was banged
to. She whirled around, and found herself face to face with Cheerio.
Even in the moonlight, she could see that his face was set and stern as
his glance passed by her and rested upon the shifting gaze of Ho, who
suddenly, hurriedly moved away.

There was no sound now but the sobbing breath of the excited Hilda.
Bully Bill had followed his assistant. She was alone on the verandah
with Cheerio. A moment she looked up in the quiet moonlight at the man
she had told herself so often that she hated.

What must he think of her now? Had he heard Holy Smoke’s taunt? Would
he believe then that she--The thought was intolerable--an agony; but
her agony was turned to a curious bliss, when, quite suddenly, she
felt her hand warmly enclosed. For a long moment, he held her captive
and she felt the deep gaze of his eyes searching her own. Then she was
released, and like one in a dream she heard rather than saw him moving
away from her. Unconsciously, a sob in her throat, Hilda McPherson held
out her arms toward him. But he did not see her. She had a sudden
frantic apprehension that he would go after Holy Smoke--that there
would be a fight and he--An almost primitive fear of harm befalling
him, sent Hilda along to the edge of the verandah. Then she heard
something that stopped her flight, and held her there, straining to
hear the last note of that long, soft whistle which rose in crescendo
like a bird’s song that dropped across the silence of the night and
slowly melted away.

Something rose in a suffocating flood in the heart of the Alberta-born
girl. Spellbound and shaken, suddenly Hilda consciously faced the
truth: She loved!




CHAPTER XX


The shooting season was at hand. At frequent intervals along the fence
lines of O Bar O, big square slabs of white enamelled wood were nailed
to fence posts, bearing in great black letters the legend:

  TRESPASSING FORBIDDEN
  Punished to fullest extent of law.
  BEWARE THE DOGS
  P. D. MCPHERSON, Owner.

These daunted not the more persistent and intrepid of the hunters, who
slipped into this game paradise through the medium of the gate under
the Ghost River Bridge on the Banff Highway. Pitching camp near the
road, they penetrated up the great canyon and into the luring woods of
the forbidden country.

Duncan Mallison, whose vacation was drawing to a close, resented any
intrusion upon his privacy. He had begun almost to regard the place
as his own private and personal preserve. Trespassers irritated and
interrupted him. Reluctantly, he made a final shoot of Hungarian
partridge and prairie chicken--enough to go the rounds of the newspaper
office--packed his camping outfit, and prepared to depart from the
vicinity of O Bar O.

He had a moderately good feature story, but had been obliged to do a
lot of padding, elaborating and exaggerating on the amount of gambling
done and the odds on P. D. He was not satisfied with his “story.” He
just “sniffed the edges” of a story big enough to syndicate in a dozen
or more papers over the country and perhaps find a place also across
the line. His nose for news and his inherent sense of romance scented
another kind of story at O Bar O. This Englishman--whatever his name
was (of course, Cheerio was merely a nickname) interested the reporter.
It was plain that he was no ordinary ranch hand. Who, then, was he, and
what was he doing working on a ranch?

“Younger son,” and, for that matter, older sons, were not uncommon in
the Alberta ranching country. It was in fact, an ideal place, for the
disposal of ne’er-do-wells, and if they had the “stuff” in them to
make real men of them. The reporter had come into contact with a great
many of these quite likable chaps from the old country, especially
upon those periodical occasions when remittances from home were due,
they came to town to spend a monthly allowance in a single night, or
several days of unadulterated spreeing. They were not noted especially
for their love of work, though there was good stuff in most of them as
was proved when the war broke out and a large percentage of the men who
marched from Alberta were of English birth.

This Cheerio fellow was somehow different. Mallison could not exactly
place him. He worked. In point of fact, Cheerio was reputed to be
one of the best workers at O Bar O and really earned his modest $50
a month. Nevertheless, the newspaper man recognised him at once as a
man of education and breeding. Mallison had heard the story of the
branding, and of the confession that had followed. Sandy was prone
to exaggeration, and the reporter, sifting the facts in the case,
was disposed to question whether this incident should be regarded
seriously. From Cheerio himself he learned scarcely nothing. Several
times intent upon acquiring a real interview with the man, he was
exasperated to discover after Cheerio had left him that Cheerio, on the
contrary, had interviewed him. He was extremely interested, apparently,
in newspaper work, and asked the reporter many questions concerning
the sort of papers supported by the City of Calgary, and also what
opportunity there might be for a man to get a berth on one of these as
a caricaturist or newspaper artist.

Ruminating over the matter, the reporter lay flat upon the ground on
his back, hands under the back of his head, staring straight up at the
interlacing branches of a giant spruce tree, through which the sunlight
glistened and danced. Presently his reverie was disturbed. There was
the flurry and flutter of wings and up out of the bush there arose a
couple of grouse--wavered above his head a moment, then dropped down
behind the somewhat fantastic rock that jutted out above the river.

“Doggone those hunters!”

They were a distinct menace in the woods of O Bar O. They shot at
anything and everything.

The bushes at the back of the reporter were violently agitated, and a
fat red face presently was thrust cautiously through. A man carrying a
shot-gun, and dressed in knickers and khaki hunting coat with numerous
little shell pockets, trod through the bush. Reporter and hunter
scowled at each other. Here was no entente cordiale.

“Did you see where my birds dropped?”

“Did you see those trespass signs along the road?” was the reply.

“Did you see them yourself?” retorted the other.

“You bet I did, and I’m here to see that others see them, too.”

Turning back his coat, Mallison revealed a bright star pinned to his
vest. Now, that star represented the fact that the reporter had certain
rights at fires and other places where the press is permitted to be
represented; but to the hunter it looked fearfully like the star that a
game warden might carry. He essayed a conciliating laugh, while backing
hastily toward the exit at the bridge outside of which his Studebaker
was parked. He got into it in a great hurry.

Grinning, Mallison sat up, his eye upon the out-jutting rock where the
grouse had fallen. Lazily he stretched himself; leisurely he climbed up
the cliff to the rock and lightly he dropped down in Cheerio’s cave.

He swung around in a circle, blinking his eyes and emitting a long,
amazed whistle.

For the next half hour he was a very busy reporter. Aladdin’s cave
could have afforded him no more satisfaction or interest.

The Indian pictures were ranged along a shelf in the natural gallery
that stretched under the rock for a space of about thirty feet. It was
amply lighted and completely sheltered. As Mallison went down the line
of pictures he realized that here was indeed a rare find.

Colour had been splashed prodigally upon the canvasses. Maroon, lemon,
magenta, scarlet, vivid purple, cerise, blues, flame colour. Indian
colours! Indian faces! Here was more than a mere tribe of Indians.
The artist had stamped indelibly upon the canvas a revelation of the
history of a passing race. He had painted the Iliad of the Indian race.

Here was an ancient chief, grave, stern as a judge, with the dignity of
a king and a pride that all the squalor and poverty and starvation of a
long, hard life, the repression and tyranny at the hands of successive
Indian agents and parasites upon his race, had been unable to quench.

Here, the infinitely old and wrinkled, toothless, witch-like
great-great-grandmother of the tribe, a crone who mumbled prophetic
warnings to which the lightest-hearted paid superstitious heed. And
here the blind Medicine Man.

Smiling, wheedling, begging, the pleasantly-plump shining-faced squaws.
The Braves, young and old, variously clad, some clinging to the garb
of their ancestors, or wearing the holiday dress, gaudy Hudson’s Bay
blankets and rugs and headdresses of eagle or turkey feathers; others
in the half cowboy, half Indian clothes, and others again poorly
attired in the mockery of the white man’s clothes.

Thin faces, deep and hungry-eyed, with that subdued look that tells not
so much of the conquering hand of the white man as of the insidious
effects of the great white plague.

Tragic faces of half-breeds, pawns of an undesired fate. Something
of smouldering wildness, something of sadness, something of intense
longing and wistfulness looked from the strange eyes of the breeds,
legally white and permitted the “privilege” of the franchise, subject
to conscription and taxation, yet doomed to live among their red
kindred.

Beauty peered from the half-lifted ragged magenta shawl of an Indian
Madonna, upon whose back the tiny blonde head of a blue-eyed papoose
told a story more eloquent than words.

This, then, was the “find” of the newspaper man. Of the pictures, he
selected six. He had no compunction about helping himself. It was
part of his trade, and he had discovered the cave. What is more, he
cherished the enthusiastic ambition of making the unknown artist
famous. There were people in Calgary who would appreciate what this man
had done. Mallison intended to show his find to these connoisseurs.

From the Indian pictures, he turned to the portfolio of sketches.
Several of Sandy and the ranch hands, one of Bully Bill, with the
quid of tobacco in his cheek, a characteristic bit of old P. D., one
of Viper at the heels of the milk cows, a stream of cattle pouring
over the hill, and--Hilda! One hundred and eighteen sketches of Hilda
McPherson. Now the reporter understood, and he chuckled with sympathy.
He did not blame the man. He had seen Hilda!

From the portfolio, Mallison selected two or three sketches of P. D.,
one of Sandy, three of Hilda, and a single photograph of Cheerio, taken
evidently in France, and in uniform. He was easily recognizable. There
was no mistaking that boyish and friendly smile, that seemed somehow
to irradiate and make singularly interesting the essentially sensitive
features of the young Englishman.




CHAPTER XXI


Every night, after his dinner, P. D. would take what he termed a
“cat-nap.” Not even chess interrupted these short dozes on the
comfortable couch by the pleasantly-crackling logs heaped upon the big
fireplace.

There would be an interval, then, when Cheerio and Hilda would find
themselves practically alone in the living-room. Sometimes Cheerio
would look across expectantly at Hilda, and she would turn away and
stare with seeming absorption out of the window. Then he would bring
forth his tobacco pouch, fill and light his pipe and dip down in the
pocket of his old coat and bring up a book. Hilda’s absorption in the
outside view would undergo a swift change. Against her will, she found
herself watching him furtively. It fascinated her to see the way in
which he would handle a book, his fingers seeming sensitively to caress
the pages. He always closed the book reluctantly and would return
it carefully to his pocket as if it were something precious. She had
satisfied her curiosity as to the titles and the authors of the books
he read. She had never heard the names before, and suffered a pang
that he should be close to matters concerning which she was totally
ignorant. She tried to comfort and reassure herself. Even if one had
missed school and college, even if one had been side-tracked all of
her life on an Alberta ranch, even if a girl’s solitary associates and
friends, over all the days of her life, had been merely the rough types
peculiar to the cattle country, _he_ had said that a world might be
discovered right within the pages of a book. There was hope, therefore,
for the unhappy Hilda.

He had made that remark to no one in particular one night, as he gently
closed the book in his hand, and reached for the tobacco pouch in
his rough tweed pocket. Then he had filled his pipe, beamed upon the
sleeping P. D., and with his brown head against the back of the Morris
chair, Cheerio had lapsed into what seemed to be a brown study in
which Hilda and all the rest of the world appeared to disappear from
his ken.

Cheerio had a trick of disappearing, as it was, in this
manner--disappearing, mentally. Always there would then arise something
torturing in the breast of Hilda McPherson. She had a passionate
curiosity to know where the mind of the dreaming man had leaped in
thought. Across the water--Ah! there was no doubt of that! Back in
that England of his! Figures rose about him. Hilda had an intuitive
knowledge of the types of people who were his familiars on the other
side. Always among them was the smiling woman, whose hair was gold
and whose lazy eyes had a lure in them that to the downright and
unsophisticated Hilda spelled the last word in fascination. “Nanna”! A
foolish name for a lady, thought the girl throbbingly, and yet a love
name. It was undoubtedly that.

If the motherless girl could but have found a confidante on whom
to pour out all the torturing doubts and longings of these days,
something of her pain would have been surely assuaged. Chaotic new
emotions were warring within her breast. Her wild young nature found
itself incapable of wrestling with the exquisite impulses that despite
her best efforts she could not control. Hilda told herself that she
hated. An alarming voice seemed to retort from the depths of her
heart that that was but another name for Love. This--Love! She could
not--would not--dared not believe it. And yet the simple motion of this
man’s strong white hand, the slight quizzical uplift of his eyes had
the power to cause her to hold her breath suspended and send the blood
racing to her heart.

Hilda was not subtle enough to search her soul or that of another.
She could not diagnose that which overwhelmed her. In a way she was
like one overtaken, trapped in a spell from which there was no door
through which she might escape. She had reason for believing him to be
unworthy--a man who put to a crucial test, had failed miserably; one
who had confessed to a flagrant and criminal weakness.

She had judged him relentlessly, for youth is cruel, and love and
jealousy create a torment which is hard to bear.




CHAPTER XXII


Duncan Mallison pushed the little swinging gate open with his knee and
sauntering across to the City desk, threw a bundle down upon it.

“Why, hello, Dunc! Back?”

“Hi, there, Dunc!”

Several heads bent above typewriters raised long enough to call
across a word of greeting. Charley Munns, City Editor of the Calgary
_Blizzard_, his desk heaped high with an amazing mass of papers,
glanced up with a detached query in his harassed young blue eyes.

“Well?”

Mallison proceeded to untie the string about his package. Munns glanced
at the first of the pictures, jerked his chin out and looked again.
Mallison showed the second and then, slowly, the third. Munns had
pushed back the heap of papers. Pipe in hand, tired young blue eyes
suddenly bright and alert, he examined the remarkable sketches. An
interested group had gathered at the back of the city editor’s chair,
and the sketches passed from hand to hand. Mallison who had, without
words, merely laid the package of sketches before his city editor,
continued reticent when questioned by the staff.

“Whose work was it? Where had he got them? Had they been exhibited?
What were they doing in Calgary?” and so forth.

Oh, they were the work of a friend of his. Didn’t matter who. None of
them knew his name. No, they hadn’t been exhibited.

Then he sat him down by the “Chief’s” desk, hugged his chin, and stared
gloomily before him. The men were back at their desks, and Munns signed
some slips, and then turned his attention back to his reporter.

“Good work. Typical Stoneys, eh? Don’t know who your friend is, Dunc,
but it is worth two sticks--more if you’re personally interested. By
the way, about P. D.? How’d you come out?”

The city editor had picked up again one of the sketches and was
examining it interestedly. It was of a young girl, standing on the top
of a hill, her horse, reins dropped, behind her, its mane blowing in
the wind. She was in breeks, with a boy’s riding boots and her sweater
was a bright scarlet. On her head was a black velvet tam. Something in
the wide-eyed dreaming look of the girl, as if she were gazing across
over an immense distance, seeing probably hills yet higher than the one
on which she stood, with the clear blue skies as her only background,
held the attention of the jaded city editor.

“That’s really great. Fine! Who’s the girl, by the way?”

“Hilda McPherson.”

“Oh ho!”

Mallison pulled out the slat of the desk, rested his elbows upon it,
and began talking. As he talked, his city editor’s eyes returned time
and again to the sketches, and suddenly he ejaculated:

“Hello! What’s this?”

Absently turning over the sketches, the photograph of Cheerio was
suddenly revealed. Charley Munns’ brows were puckering. One other
talent this man possessed. An almost uncanny gift of memory. It was
said of him that he never forgot a face once seen.

“Half a mo’!”

He had swung around a rackety file, that revolved on low wheels.
Digging into it, he presently found the “obit” that he sought, and
slapped down upon the desk a pile of press clippings, duplicate of the
photograph which the reporter had found at O Bar O, and a concise,
itemised description of the man in question.

Editor and reporter scanned the story swiftly. There was no question
now as to the identity of the man at O Bar O. Cheerio’s obit read like
a romance. Son and heir of Lord Chelsmore, he had left his art studios
in Italy to return to England, there to enlist as a common soldier
in the ranks. Among those missing in France, posthumous honors had
been bestowed upon him. Soon after this, his father had died, and his
younger brother had succeeded to the title and estates and had married
his former fiancée.

Charley Munns glanced through the various clippings, nodded his head,
and slapped them back into the big manila envelope.

“I think you’ve stumbled across a big thing,” he said. “This man is
probably the real Lord Chelsmore. Find out just what he’s doing up
here. Not only a good news story here, but a fine feature story, if you
want to do it.”

But the reporter was staring out angrily before him. Certain instincts
were warring within him. He wanted to shove his knees under that
typewriter desk and begin pounding out a story that would proclaim
Cheerio’s secret to the world. But a feeling of compunction and shame
held him back.

After all, the fellow had a right to his own secret. He had been darned
nice to the reporter. Was a darned good friend. Mallison’s mind went
back to those long, pleasant Sundays, when they had talked and smoked
together. He recalled a day, when with a friendly smile, Cheerio had
tossed from his horse into Mallison’s arms a fine haunch of venison. A
man couldn’t buy venison from the Indians, nor, at that time, could he
shoot deer. The Indians alone had that right, and while they were not
permitted to sell venison to the white men, there was no law to prevent
them from making gifts of the desired meat. Nor was there any law that
prevented the white man returning the compliment with a bag of sugar
or a can of molasses or whatever sweet stuff the red man might demand.
Cheerio remarked that he had no use for the venison at the ranch house
and the stuff was a hanged sight better cooked over a camp fire, so
“There you are, old man. One minute, and I’ll give you a hand.”

He had built the fire and he had cut up and broiled the venison, and he
had spread it thickly with O Bar O butter, and with a friendly grin, he
had dished it out to the camper.

Mallison felt himself shrivelling under a mean pang. It was a dirty
trick to have taken the sketches, though Mallison proposed to show
them to certain prominent folk of Calgary who might help the fellow who
was a ranch hand. He had not intended to exploit his friend. He had a
good enough story about P. D., and he had been sent to “cover” P. D.
and the chess game. So why----

His chair scraped the floor. He leaned heavily across the city desk.

“I say, Chief, I don’t need to find out what he’s doing up here. I
know. He’s up here so’s not to stand in the way of his brother’s
happiness. That’s how I dope it out. And he’s a darned good sort, and
I’m hanged if I want the job of writing a story like that. He’s a
friend of mine, and it’d be a scurvy trick. It’s none of our dashed
business, anyway.”

“It’s a good newspaper story,” said the city editor without emphasis.

“Oh, I dunno. Who gives a hang in this country about an Englishman? You
can dig up a dozen stories like that any day up here in Alberta.”

“Maybe you can.”

Charley Munns answered five telephone calls in succession, signed two
slips brought to him by a boy, read a telegram, called an assignment
across to a reporter who rose from his typewriter and made an instant
exit, and then turned back to the gloomy Mallison at his elbow. A grin
twisted the city editor’s mouth, and a humorous twinkle lighted up his
tired eyes.

“Suit yourself, Dunc. Give’s a column, then, about old P. D. and the
chess, and run a few of the Indian pictures and the one of the old
man--the one with the pipe and the hat. Cut out the Cheerio man, then.
If he’s satisfied where he is, let him stay--among those missing. We
should worry.”

Duncan Mallison grinned delightedly.

“Thanks! I’ll tell him what you said.”




CHAPTER XXIII


A mighty panorama of golden hills swelled like waves on all sides and
vanished into cloud-like outlines of yet higher hills that zigzagged
across the horizon and merged in the west into that matchless chain of
rugged peaks. Snow crowned, rosy under the caress of the slowly sinking
sun, bathed in a mystic veil of gilded splendour, the Canadian Rockies
were printed like an immense masterpiece across the western sky.

Hilda rode slowly along, her gaze pinned upon the hills. Yet of them
she was thinking but vaguely. They were a familiar and well-loved
presence that had been with them always. To them she had turned in all
her girlish troubles. To them she had whispered her secrets and her
dreams.

As she rode on and on, her thoughts were all of those strange evenings
in the company of this man--the too-short, electrical half hour or so
when they would be alone together before her father awoke.

Her reins hung loose over her horse’s neck; her hands were in the
pockets of her hide coat; her head slightly bent, Hilda gave herself up
to a long, aching, yet singularly glowing day dream. Daisy made her own
trail, idly loping along above the canyon that skirted the Ghost River,
stopping now and then to nibble at the sweet grass along the paths.

The woods were very still and lovely. Wide searchlights of the
remaining sunshine pierced through the branches of the trees and
flickered in and out of the woods, playing in golden, dancing gleams
upon the green growth.

Brown and gold, deeply red, burnt yellow, and green, the trees were
freighted with glorious beauty. Masses of the leaves fluttered idly
to the ground, moved by the soft fragrant breeze and the branches on
bush and tree seemed lazily to shake themselves, as if succumbing
unwillingly to the slumberous spell of the quiet Autumn day.

The flowers beneath the trees still shone, their radiance but slightly
dulled by the touch of the night frosts, seeming lovelier indeed, as
if veiled by some softening web-like touch. Scarlet and bright, all
through the wooded growth, the wild-rose berries grew.

Coveys of partridge and pheasants fluttered among the bush, peeked up
with bright, inquiring eyes at the girl on horse, then hopped a few
paces away, under the thick carpet of leaves.

In an open field, swiftly running horses raced to meet them. Like
playful children, they ran around and in front and on all sides of
Hilda’s mare, thrusting their noses against hers, and laying their
faces across her slender back, utterly unafraid of the rider, yet
timorous and moving at Hilda’s slightest affectionate slap or word of
reproval when they pressed too closely.

She was off again. This time a race across a wide pasture and into the
hills to the west, turning at the end of a long, wooded climb up an
almost perpendicular slope, to come out upon the top of one hill, to
climb still higher to another, into a wide, open space, and again to
a higher hill, till, suddenly, she seemed to be on the very top of the
world.

Below her, nestling like a small city, the white and green buildings of
the ranch showed. Very near it seemed, and yet in fact a distance of
two or three miles. From this highest point, the girl on horse paused
to cast a long, lingering look over the surrounding country that lay
spread below her.

To the north were dim woods, thick and dark. An eagle soaring overhead.

To the east, the wide-spreading pastures and the long, trailing road to
Banff. Dim forms of cattle and horse observable in the still lingering
light, moving specks upon the gracious meadows.

To the south, the lower chain of hills and the sheep lands. A coyote’s
wild moaning call. A hawk circling toward the ranch house.

Shining like a jewel in the mellow glow, the long, sinuous body of the
Bow River, rushing swiftly to make its junction with the more leisurely
flowing Ghost, upon whose surface the logs from the Eaue Claire Lumber
Camp were being borne by the hundreds upon the first lap of their
journey to Calgary.

In the West, hill upon hill and still farther hill upon hill, and
beyond all, the snow crowned, inescapable immortal range of Rocky
Mountains, a dream, a miracle, emblematic of eternity and peace.

It was hard indeed to tear her gaze from the last lingering gleams
of that marvellous sunset. There was that about it that uplifted and
comforted the aching heart. Hilda sighed and at last her long gaze was
reluctantly withdrawn, dropped lower over the hill tops, the woods, and
came to rest, alertly and still, upon a moving shadow that slipped in
and out of the bush in a direct line with the barbed wire fencing.

She rode slowly, leisurely, but her reins were now in her hands. In
all her young life, Hilda McPherson had known not the meaning of the
word fear. Anger, pain, pity and now love, had shaken her soul, but of
fear she knew nothing. That anyone should wish to harm her, was beyond
her comprehension. So she rode forward quietly, almost indifferently.
Nevertheless, Hilda knew that someone was trailing her. An O Bar O
“hand” or a neighbour would have come out into the open. Whoever was
following her was keeping purposely under the shadow of the bush. Nor
could it be an Indian. Hilda knew the Stoneys well. An Indian does not
molest a white woman.

She pondered over the purpose of the man who was following her. What
did he want? Why did he not come out into the open? Thieves and
rustlers would not have ventured as near to the ranch house as this.
Their work was upon the range.

Hilda’s horse was now climbing down the other side of the hill slope,
directly toward the ranch. O Bar O was fenced and cross-fenced with
four wires, every field being laid out for especial stock. In a country
like Alberta, where ranching is done on a large scale, stock are seldom
penned in barn or stable. They are loose upon the range. Between each
field, antiquated barbed wire gates were kept tightly closed. These
were difficult to open. They consisted of three or four strands of
barbed wire nailed to light willow fence posts at a space of about a
foot apart. These swung clear from the ground and when closed fastened
by a loop of the wire to the stout post at the end of the fencing. They
were nasty things to open, even for the toughened hands of the cowboy.
Hilda seldom used these gates. She would go around by the paths that
opened to the main trails where were the great gates that swung from
their own weights and were made of posts ten feet long. These, however,
were not as desirable for dividing fields, since they swung too easily
and were a temptation to leave open. The old type were preferred by the
ranchers. They kept the cattle more securely separated.

This evening, Hilda came over the hill by the shorter trail, and now
she was before the first of the wire gates.

The days were getting shorter and already, though it was scarcely
six o’clock, the shadows were closing in deeply. The rosy skies were
dimming and the pressing shadows crept imperceptibly over the gilded
sky.

Quite suddenly darkness fell. The trail, however, was close to the gate
and her horse knew the way. Hilda did not dismount. Leaning from her
horse, she grasped the post and tugged at the tightly wedged ring of
wire.

Her first knowledge of the near presence of the man who had followed
her came when something thudded down at her horse’s feet. In the half
light of the fading day Hilda saw that uncoiled rope.

The lariat!

Now she understood and a gasp of rage escaped her. The man had
attempted to rope her. The lariat had fallen short! She, Hilda
McPherson, daughter of O Bar O, to be lariated like a head of stock!

As she watched the rope slowly being coiled in, the sickening thought
rushed upon her that presently it would be thrown again, and that
second throw might fall true. Instantly she was off her horse, had
grasped the end of the lariat, whipped it about the gate post, tied
a tight knot, ducked under the wire of the fence, and secure in the
knowledge that her pursuer would be held back by the closed gate,
unless he dismounted and took her own means of passing through, Hilda
ran like the wind straight along the trail to O Bar O, shouting in her
clear, carrying young voice, the Indian cry:

“Hi, yi, yi, yi, yi, yi, yi, yi, yi! Eee-yaw-aw-aw-aw-aw-aw!”

As she called, as she ran, an answering shout came from the direction
of the ranch, still more than a mile away; but he who had answered her
call for help was even then coming over the crest of the last hill, and
the silhouette in the twilight of man and horse stopped the girl short
and sent her heart racing like a mad thing in her breast. He was riding
as only one at O Bar O could ride. Reining up sharply before Hilda,
Cheerio swiftly dismounted and was at her side.

“Hilda! You’ve been thrown!”

Oh, how that voice, with its unmistakable note of deep anxiety in
her behalf, made Hilda’s heart leap. Even in her excitement, she was
conscious of a strangely exultant pang at the thought that he should
have been the one to have come to her in her need. She could scarcely
speak from the excitement and terror of her recent experience, and for
the tumultuous emotions at the sight of the man she loved.

“Over there--a man! He followed me--Oh--has been trailing me through
the woods, and at the gate--the gate--he threw the lariat--the lariat!”

Her voice rose hysterically.

“It missed us--just touched Daisy. I--I--tied it to the gate post.
Gate’s closed. He can’t come through on horse. Look! There he is! There
he is! See--see--white chaps! Look!”

She was speaking in little sobbing gasps, conscious not of the fact
that she was held in the comforting curve of the man’s strong arm.

Dimly the vanishing form of horse and man showed for an instant in the
half light and disappeared into the dense woods beyond. Cheerio made a
motion as if to remount and follow, but Hilda clung to his sleeve.

“Oh, don’t leave me. Please don’t leave me. I’m--I’m--afraid to be
alone.”

“N-not f-for worlds,” he said, “but d-d-dear--” Through all her pain
she heard that soft term of endearment, “He’s left the lariat. Couldn’t
stop to get it. Come, we’ll get it. It may furnish a clue.”

Back at the gate, they untied the knotted lariat and Cheerio recoiled
it and attached it to his own saddle.

“We’ll keep this as a memento. Maybe there’s a man at O Bar O short a
lariat.”

“No man at O Bar O would do a coyote’s trick like that,” said Hilda,
faintly.

She had recovered somewhat of her composure, though she still felt the
near influence of the man walking beside her, leading his horse with
one hand, and holding her arm with the other. Her own mount had gone
free and would not be recovered till the morning. She would not follow
his suggestion to mount his horse.

And so they came down over the hill together. Just before they passed
into the ranch yard, Cheerio controlled his fluttering tongue and
stammered something that he had been trying to say to her all of the
way down the hill.

“Hilda, I’m a f-f-f-fortunate d-dog. I’m jolly glad I w-w-went out to
look for you to-night.”

“_Were_ you looking for me, then? Why?”

“C-can’t explain it. S-something m-made me go. I had to f-find you,
Hilda.”

Now they were at the steps of the ranch house. Hilda went up one step,
paused, went up another and stopped, unable to go further. Cheerio
leaned up and tried to see her face in the semi-light that was now
silvering the land from the broad moon above. What he saw in Hilda’s
face brought the word bursting to his lips:

“M-my _dear_ old girl!” he said. “I’m dashed jolly glad I’m alive.”

Hilda said in a whisper:

“Ah, so am I!”

And then she fled--fled in panic-stricken retreat to the house. Blindly
she found her way to her room, and cast herself down upon her bed. She
was trembling with an ecstasy that stung her by its very sweetness.




CHAPTER XXIV


Of all the emotions, whether sublime or ridiculous, that obsess the
victim of that curious malady of the heart which we call Love, none is
more torturing or devastating in its effect than that of jealousy with
its train of violent reactions.

Love affected and afflicted Hilda and Cheerio in different and yet in
similar ways.

Hilda, kneeling by her bed, her arms clasped about her pillow, into
which she had buried her hot young face, gave herself up at first to
the sheer ecstasy and glow of those first exalting, electrical thrills.
All she comprehended was that she was in love.

Love! It was the most beautiful, the most sacred, the most precious
and the most terrible thing in all the universe. That was what
Hilda thought. Gradually her thoughts began to assemble themselves
coherently. Sitting upon the floor by her bed, Hilda brought back to
mind every incident, every word and look that had passed between her
and Cheerio that she could recall since first he had come to O Bar O.

Who was this man she loved? What was he doing at O Bar O? Where had he
come from? Who were his people? She did not even know his name. The
very things that had aroused the derision of the men, his decently-kept
hands, the daily shave and bath, his speech, his manner, his innate
cleanliness of thought and person--these bespoke the gentleman, and
Hilda McPherson had the ranch girl’s contempt for a mere gentleman. In
the ranching country, a man was a man. That was the best that could be
said of him.

With the thought of his past, came irresistibly back to torment her
the woman of the locket--“Nanna,” for whom he had come to Canada to
make a home. She had never been wholly absent from Hilda’s thought and
unconsciously now, as in the midst of her bliss she came back vividly
to mind, a little sob escaped her. She tried to fight the encroaching
thought of this woman’s claim.

“Suppose he had been in love with her, I’ve cut her out! She is done
for.”

Thus Hilda, to the unresponsive wall facing her.

Suppose, however, they were engaged. That was a word that was followed
by marriage. This thought sent Hilda to her feet, stiff with a new
alarm. The unquiet demon of Jealousy had struck its fangs deep into
the girl’s innermost heart. She no sooner tried to recall his face as
he had looked at her in the moonlight, the warm clasp of his hand, the
term of endearment that had slipped from his lips, when the knife was
twisted again within her, and she saw the lovely face of the other
woman smiling at her from the gold locket, with her fair hair enshrined
on the opposite side.

The recollection was intolerable--unendurable to one of Hilda’s
tempestuous nature. Suppose she should come to Alberta! Perhaps she
would not release him, even if he desired it! Suppose she should come
even to O Bar O. How would she--Hilda--bear to meet her? Her wild
imagination pictured the arrival, and Hilda began to walk her floor.
Love was now a purgatory. What was she to do? What was she to do? Hilda
asked herself this question over and over again, and then when her pain
became more than she could bear, she turned desperately to her door. At
any cost, however humiliating to her pride, she would learn the truth.
She would go directly to him. She would ask him point-blank whether
from this time on it was to be her or--Nanna!

She had done without her dinner. She could not have eaten had she been
able to force herself to the table. Her father had called her, Sandy
had pounded upon her door. It mattered not. Hilda was deaf to all
summons, save those clamouring ones within her.

As far as that goes, she was not the only one at O Bar O who had gone
supperless.

Cheerio, after she had left him, remained at the foot of the steps,
just looking up at the door through which the world for him seemed to
have vanished. How long he stood thus, cannot be estimated by minutes
or seconds. Presently he sat down upon the steps, and soon was lost in
a blissful daze of abstraction.

Above him spread the great map of the skies, at this time of year
especially beautiful, star-spotted and slashed with the long rays
of Northern lights and the night rainbows. Still and electric was
the night. Keen and fresh the air. The ranch sounds were like mellow
musical echoes. Even the clang of Chum Lee’s cow-bell, calling all
hands to the evening meal, seemed part of the all-abiding charm of that
perfect night.

The voices of the men en route from bunkhouse to cook-car, the sharp
bark of the dog Viper, and the answering growls of the cattle dogs, the
coyote, still wailing wildly in the hills.

Lights were low in the bunkhouse and on full in the cook-car. The
absorbing job of “feeding” was now in process.

All these things Cheerio noted vaguely, with a gentle sort of delight
and approval. They were all part of the general beauty of life on
this remarkable ranch. He was conscious of a big, uplifting sense. He
wanted to shout across the world praise of this new land that he had
discovered; of the utter peace and joy of ranching in the foothills of
the Rocky Mountains; of the girl of girls who was more to him now than
anything else on earth.

A wide moon was now overhead, and the country was bathed in a silvery
light. The skies were star-spotted, and alive with mystery and beauty.

Snatches of poetry sang in his head, and for the first time since the
days when he had penned his boyish love lyrics to Sybil Chennoweth,
Cheerio indited new ones to Hilda, the girl he now loved:

    “Oh, Hilda, my darling, the sky is alive,
    And all of the stars are above;
    The moon in her gown of silvery sheen--
    She knows of my love--my love.”

It mattered not to the lover whether his verses were of a high order
from a critical point of view. They were heartfelt--an expression of
what seemed surging up within him. He needed a medium through which he
might speak to Hilda. On the back of an envelope, he scratched:

    “Hilda of the dark brown eyes
    And lips so ripe and red.
    Hilda, of the wilful ways,
    And small, proud, tossing head.”

And so it went. But, like Hilda, the first incoherent rhapsody gave
way presently to soberer thoughts. He was inspired by a desire to
do something to prove himself worthy of the girl he loved. He was
overtaken with an appalling realization of his shortcomings. What had
he to offer Hilda? What had he done to deserve her? He was but one of
twenty or more paid “hands” on her father’s ranch. He was penniless;
nameless!

She was no ordinary girl. That brown-eyed girl, with her independent
toss of head and her free, frank nature, he knew had the tender heart
of a mother. Cheerio had watched many a time when she knew it not. He
had seen her with the baby colts, the calves, the young live-stock of
the ranch; the hidden litter of kittens in the barn, whose existence
was so carefully hidden from her father. He had watched Hilda caring
for the sick little Indian papoose, wrapping antiseptic salve bandages
on a little boy’s sore arm, and stooping to kiss the brown face and pat
the shoulder of the little Indian mother. No wonder she was adored by
half the country-side. No wonder the Indians called her “little mother”
and friend. She was as straightforward, honest, and clean as a whistle.
She was fearless and fine as a soldier. There was about her slim, young
grace a boyish air of courage. Hilda! There never was another girl like
his in all the whole world.

Now Cheerio felt humbled, unworthy. Followed a boyish desire to
give Hilda things. He regretted his poverty, and suffered a sense
of resentment and irritation for the first time at the thought of
the power and pride of a great family name that should by rights be
his and Hilda’s. What had he to offer her? Nothing--but the trifling
trinket, a family heirloom, in which long since he had replaced the
picture of the English girl with the one Sandy had given him of Hilda.
Automatically his hand closed about the locket. It was a fine old
antique. Hilda would appreciate it. He would show her her own and
Nanna’s face inside it. He pictured her shining eyes as she would take
the trinket from his hand. Once she had told him she possessed not
a single piece of jewellery. P. D. had denounced them as “baubles,
suitable for savages only--relics of days of barbarism. The modern
woman who pierced her ears,” said P. D. McPherson, “and hung silly
stones from them was little better than the half-naked black women who
hung jewels and rings from their noses.”

But Hilda did not share her father’s opinion. She had spoken wistfully,
longingly, enviously. This was after reading a chapter concerning Anne
of Austria’s diamonds and D’Artagnan’s famous recovery of the same.

Well, Hilda should have her first piece of jewellery from his hands.
The ancient Chelsmore locket. It would take the place of the ring
between them. It would be the symbol of their love.




CHAPTER XXV


As a boy, Cheerio’s inability swiftly to explain or defend himself,
had resulted in many unjust punishments. He was not stupid, but became
easily confused, and with the best of intentions, he bungled into
unfortunate situations. His brother, Reggie, swift-witted and glib of
tongue, was far better equipped to defend and care for himself than the
often bewildered and stammering Cheerio. He had changed very little,
and his love had made him now almost obtusely blind.

As he hurried eagerly across the verandah to meet Hilda who was
hastening in her direct way for that “show down” which her peace of
mind demanded, Cheerio held out toward her the intended gift.

In the bright moonlight, Hilda saw the locket in his hand, and she
stopped short in her impetuous approach. Speech at that moment failed
her. She felt as if suddenly choked, struck, and her heart was beating
so riotously that it hurt her physically. A primitive surge of wild,
ungovernable rage surged up within her.

In a far worse dilemma was the unfortunate and deluded and
misunderstood Cheerio. At that psychological moment, when he would have
given his life for eloquent speech in which to tell the girl before him
of his love, he was overtaken with panic and confusion. The hostile
attitude of the girl reduced him to a state of incoherent stuttering as
he continued foolishly to extend the locket.

“Ww-w-w-w-w-w-w----”

She gave him no help. Her angry, wounded stare was pinned condemningly
upon him.

“Www-w-w-w-w-w-will you accept this l-little m-m-m-m--memento of----”

“Accept _that_!”

Hilda said “That” as if referring to something loathsome.

“What should I want with _it_?”

“It” also was spoken as “that.”

Like a tidal wave, the girl’s anger overwhelmed her. Hell, which the
proverb assures us, hath no fury like a woman scorned, raged indeed
in the ungoverned breast of the girl of the ranching country. She was
neither equipped by nature or training with those feminine defenses
that might have shielded her. She was in a way as uncivilized as the
savage woman who beats her untrue mate. All she was fiercely conscious
of was her raging indignation at the imagined affront offered her by
Cheerio. He, who but a short time since she had been deluded enough to
believe actually loved her was now flaunting before her that hateful
locket in which she knew was the picture of the woman he had come to
Canada to make a home for.

Her eyes were aflame. Her anger dominated her entirely.

Crestfallen and surprised, Cheerio drew back a pace:

“I s-say,” he persisted stupidly, “I only w-wanted you to have it. It’s
a n-nice old thing, you know, and----”

“How dare you offer me a thing like that?” demanded Hilda, in a level,
deadly voice. “How dare you! How dare you!”

Her voice rose. She stamped her foot. Her hands clinched. It would have
relieved her to hurt him physically. Surprised and dejected, he turned
away, but his movement whetted her anger. Her fiery words pursued him.

“What do you take me for? Do you think I want your silly old
second-hand jewellery? Why don’t you wrap the precious thing up in
white tissue paper and send it across the sea to the woman that’s in
it?”

At that a light of understanding broke over Cheerio. He moved
impetuously toward her:

“Hilda, don’t you know that you--_you_ are----”

He got no further, for at that moment a loud cough behind him
interrupted him. In their excitement neither Hilda nor Cheerio had
noted the car ascending the grade to the ranch and then circling the
path. Duncan Mallison had come up the stairs and across the verandah
and had coughed loudly before either Cheerio or Hilda were aware of his
presence.

“Good evening, everybody,” said the newspaper man. “How’s chess?”

Cheerio had recovered himself sufficiently to return the grip of the
other’s hand.

“Why, hello!”

Mallison chuckled.

“Didn’t expect to see me back, did you? I’ll tell you just what I’m up
for. No--not after a chess story this time. Do you remember talking to
me about a job on the _Blizzard_? Well, Munns--our city editor--thinks
he can make a place for you.”

It was the snapping closed of the door that apprised them of the
departure of Hilda. Cheerio looked at it thoughtfully, with an element
of sadness, and perhaps of new resolve.

“Look here,” he said to his friend. “You’ve come in the n-nick of time,
I might say. Fact is, old man, I--I’d like most awfully a chance to see
to--to--demonstrate m-m-my ability--t-to do s-something worth while,
you know. C-carn’t go on being a beggar, you understand. G-got to
s-s-succeed, don’t you know.”

Mallison did know. He grinned appreciatively.

“Then you’ll go back with me to Calgary to-night?”

“Can’t do that very well, old man.”

He thought a moment, and then added brightly:

“To-morrow morning. Put you up for to-night, and we’ll leave first
thing. You see, I’ve one more game still to do.”




CHAPTER XXVI


P. D. was taking his “cat-nap” that evening in his “office,” a room
that opened off from the dining-room, where the old rancher kept his
account books and other papers connected with the running of his
business. He was enjoying a sweet sleep, in which he dreamed of three
white pawns checking a black King. The three pawns were his. The King
was Cheerio’s. Something unpleasant and having nothing to do with the
soothing picture he was enjoying, awoke him. He blinked fiercely,
cleared his throat, sat up in the big chair, and glared disapprovingly
at his daughter who had precipitated herself almost into his lap.

“What is the meaning of this? Is it, then, 8.30?”

“No, Dad. You’ve quarter of an hour still.”

“Then what in thunderation do you mean by waking me for, then? Get
away! Get away! I don’t like to be pawed over in this manner.”

“Dad, I want to talk to you about something. I--I must talk to you.”

“When you wish to talk to me, you will choose an hour when I have the
leisure to hear you.”

“Dad, you won’t let me speak to you through the day. You always say
you’re calculating something, and now you simply _must_ listen to me.
It’s vitally important that you should. You _must_!”

“Must, heh?”

“_Please_, Dad!”

“Well, well, what is it? Speak up. Speak up.”

He took his watch out, glanced at it, scowled, paid no attention to
what his daughter was saying until the word “chess” escaped her, when
his glance fixed her.

“What’s that?”

“I said if you’d only _defend_ your King instead of everlastingly
attacking, don’t you see, you’d stand a better chance. I’ve noticed on
two or three occasions that he’s left great openings where I’m sure you
could----”

“Are you trying to teach your father the game of chess?”

“Oh, no, Dad, but you know, two heads are better than one. I’ve heard
you say so.”

“Two _mature_ heads----”

“Mine’s mature. I’m eighteen, and I think----”

“You’re not supposed to think. You’re not equipped for thinking. Women
have a constitutional brain impediment that absolutely prevents them
coherently or rationally----”

“Dad, look here. Don’t you know that it’s November 20th? The cattle are
still on the range and everybody in the country is talking about us.
They think we’ve gone plumb crazy. And why? Just because _he_ wants to
go on and on beating you and----”

“What’s this? What’s this? A discourse of depreciation of a prized
employee of O Bar O?”

“Father!” Hilda seldom called her father “Father,” but she believed
herself to be in a desperate situation and desperate speech and
measures were necessary. “Father, you have simply got to beat him
to-night. You----”

“You leave the room, miss.”

“Dad, I----”

“Leave the room!” roared P. D.

“Oh, if you only knew how unhappy I am,” cried Hilda piteously. Her
father took her by the shoulders and turned her bodily out, closing the
door sharply between them, and returning to pace the floor of his own
office, and work off some of the upsetting influences which might not
be well for that calmness and poise of mind necessary for a game of
chess.

The ranch house was a great, unwieldy building, with a wide hall
dividing on one side the enormous living-room and on the other the
dining-room, beyond which was P. D.’s office and study.

Hilda shot out of her father’s office into the darkened dining-room,
and from there into the lighted hall, where she collided with the
entering Cheerio. On him, she turned the last vials of her wrath.

“I’ve something to say to you. Everything on this ranch is at a
standstill on your account. If we don’t gather in our cattle soon,
there’ll be a lot of lost and dead O Bar O stock when the first
blizzard comes. I wish you’d never come here. You’ve pulled my old Dad
down, and look what you’ve done to me--look!--I’m glad you’re going
away! I don’t want ever to see your face again!”

Even as she said the words, Hilda longed to recall them. Cheerio’s hurt
look was more than she could bear, and she fled up the stairs like one
pursued. He heard the bang of her door, and a strangely softened look
stole into his face as he turned into the living-room.

The chess board was still set up, the men standing on the positions of
the previous night, when the game had remained unfinished at the ending
hour of ten o’clock. Cheerio cast a swift glance about him, studied the
board a moment, and then with another furtive glance, quickly changed
the position of a Black Queen and a White Pawn. His hand was scarcely
off the board when Hilda McPherson slipped from between the portieres.

As swiftly and passionately as she had fled up the stairs, so she
had run down again, compunction overwhelming her, torn and troubled
by that look on the man’s face. But her reaction turned to amazement
and indignant scorn as she watched him at the chess board. If she had
repented her harsh treatment of him before, now, more than ever, she
ascended in judgment upon him. His glance fell guiltily before her
accusing one. Hilda seized upon the first word that came to her tongue,
regardless of its odiousness.

“Cheat! Cheat! Now I understand how you’ve been beating my Dad! You’ve
been changing the positions. You can’t deny it! I’ve caught you
red-handed. Oh, oh! I might have guessed it. To think that for a single
moment I believed in you, and now to discover you’re not only a----”

He flinched, almost as if physically struck, and turned white. Then his
face stiffened. His heels came together with that peculiarly little
military click that was characteristic of him when moved. His face was
masklike as he stared straight at Hilda. Something in his silence,
some element of loneliness and helplessness about this man clutched at
the stormy heart of the girl, and stopped the words upon her lips, as
her father came into the room. Hilda had the strange feeling of a wild
mother at bay. Angry with her child, she yet was ready to fight for and
defend it. All unconsciously, she had covered her lips with her hands
to crush back the hot words that were surging up to expose him to her
father.

“What’s this? Why so much excitement? Why all this hysterical waste of
force? It carried even to my office--electrical waves of angry sound.
No doubt could be heard across at the bunkhouse or the barns. I’ll make
a test some day. Sit down, sit down. If you wish to witness our game,
oblige us with silence, if you please.”

To Cheerio he said:

“Be seated, sir. You will pardon the excitement of my daughter. Youth
is life’s tempestuous period--hard to govern--hard to restrain, a
pathological, problematical time of life. Be seated, sir. My move, I
believe, sir.”

Hilda felt weak and curiously broken. She sat forward in her chair,
her eyes so dark and large that her face, no longer rosy, seemed now
peculiarly small and young.

Old P. D. scratched his chin and pinched his lower lip as he examined
the board through his glasses. Cheerio was not looking at the board,
his sad, somewhat stern glance was pinned upon Hilda.

There was a pause, and suddenly P. D.’s face jerked forward. A crafty
twitch of the left eyebrow. He glanced up at Cheerio, moved a Bishop
three paces to the right. Cheerio withdrew his eyes reluctantly from
the drooping Hilda, looked absently at the board and made the obvious
move. Instantly P. D.’s hand shot toward his Queen. A pause, and
then suddenly through the room, like the pop of a gun, P. D.’s shout
resounded:

“Check!”

Pause.

“Check!”

This time louder.

“Check to your King, sir! Game! Game!” Up leaped P. D. McPherson,
sprang toward his opponent, smashed him upon the shoulder, gripped him
by both hands, and shouted:

“Beat you! By Gad! I’d rather beat you than go to Chicago. Damn your
hands and feet, you’re a dashed damned fine player, and it’s an honour
to beat you, sir! Come along with me, sir!”

He dragged his opponent out, and arm and arm they hurried across to
the bunkhouse to proclaim the “damnfine news” and to order all hands
of the O Bar O to set out on the following morning upon that annual
Fall round-up which had been put off for so long. But before Cheerio
had left the room, and even while her father was all but embracing him,
his glance had gone straight into the eyes of Hilda, pale as death and
slowly arising.

Like one moving in sleep, feeling her way as she passed, Hilda
McPherson followed her father and Cheerio. But she could go no farther
than the verandah. There she sat crouched down on the steps, her
face in her hands, overwhelmed by the unbearable pain that seemed to
clutch at her heart. The truth had shocked Hilda into a realization of
the inexcusable wrong and insult that she had dealt to this man. No
words were needed. She comprehended exactly what had happened in that
room. Cheerio, she now knew, had changed the men on the board for her
father’s advantage. And she had called him a cheat!

She took her hands down from her face, and spoke the words aloud:

“I called him a cheat! I called him a--coward! Oh, what am I to do?”

The man who had been sitting in the swinging couch, and whom she had
not seen, strolled across the verandah and came directly down the steps
to where the unhappy Hilda was crouched.

“Miss McPherson! Can I do anything for you?”

Hilda was in too much pain to feel either surprise or resentment for
the intrusion. She said piteously:

“I called him a cheat! a coward!”

“A coward--_him_!”

Duncan Mallison’s face darkened with an almost angry red.

“You may as well know this much at least,” he said roughly. “The man
you called a coward won the Victoria Cross for an act of sublime
heroism during the war.”

Hilda stood up. She looked beaten and small. She was wrenching her
hands together as she backed toward the door. Her lips were quivering.
She tried to speak, but the words could not come, and she shook her
head dumbly.

The reporter, who probably understood human nature far better than
the average person, was touched by the girl’s evident misery. He put
his hand under Hilda’s arm, and guided her to the door. There he said
soothingly:

“Now, don’t worry. Everything’s all right, and you’re in luck. We’re
going to take him on the paper. Fine job. He’ll make out great. So,
don’t worry. First thing in the morning we’ll be off, and you can
depend upon me to do the best I can for him. He’s a darned good pal.”




CHAPTER XXVII


Hilda awoke with a sob. She sat up in bed, pressing her hands to her
eyes. Slowly, painfully, she recalled the events of the previous night.

She had called him a cheat--a coward! She had said that she never
wished to see his face again! She had driven him from O Bar O. He had
gone out of her life now forever.

Hilda could see the dim light of the approaching dawn already tinting
the wide eastern sky. It was a chill, raw morning. He would walk out
from O Bar O, with his old, battered grip in his hand and that gray
suit that had so edified the ranch hands. Her breast rose and swelled.
The tears of the previous night threatened to overwhelm her again.
Hilda had literally cried practically all of the night, and her hour’s
sleep had come only through sheer exhaustion.

The unhappy girl crept out of bed and knelt by the window, peering out
in the first grey gloom of the Autumn morning, toward the bunkhouse.
She fancied she saw something moving in that direction, but the light
was dim, and she could not be sure.

It was cold and damp as she knelt on the floor. No matter. He would be
cold and chilled, too, and she had driven him from O Bar O!

A light gleamed now in the dusk over at the saddle rooms. A glance
at her watch showed it was not yet six o’clock. He would make an
early start, probably leaving before the men started off on the
round-up--they were to leave for the range at seven that morning.

Without quite realizing what she was doing, Hilda dressed swiftly.
The cold water on her tear-blistered face soothed and cooled it. She
wrapped a cape about herself, put on a knitted tam.

The halls were dark, but she dared not turn on the electric lights,
lest she should awaken Sandy or her father. Feeling her way along the
wall, she found the stairs, and clinging to the bannister went quickly
down. A moment to seek the door knob, and swing the big door open. At
last she was out of the house.

The cold air smote and revived her. It gave her courage and strength.

The darkness was slowly lifting, and all over the sky the silvery waves
of morning were now spreading. Hilda sped like a fawn across the barn
yard, through the corrals and directly to the saddle room, from whence
came the light. The upper part of the door was open, and Hilda pushed
the lower part and stepped inside.

A man in white chaps was bending over a saddle to which he was
attaching a lariat rope. As the lower door slammed shut behind Hilda,
he started like an overtaken thief, and jumped around. Hilda saw his
face. It was Holy Smoke.

All at once Hilda McPherson knew that before her stood the man who had
tried to lariat her in the woods. She stared at him now in a sort of
fascinated horror. A cunning look of surprised delight was creeping
over the man’s face. Hilda put her hand behind her and backed for the
door. At the same time, once again she raised her voice, and sent forth
that loud cry of alarm:

“Hi-yi-yi-yi-yi-yi-yi-iiiii-i-i-i-i!”

The cry was choked midway. She was held in a strangling hold, the big
hand of the cowpuncher gripped upon her throat.

“There’ll be none of the Hi-yi-ing for you to-day! If you make another
peep, I’ll choke you to death! I’m quittin’ O Bar O for good and all
to-day, but before I go you and me has got an account to settle.”

She fought desperately, with all her splendid young strength,
scratching, kicking, biting, beating with her fists like a wild thing
at bay, and, with the first release as he staggered back, when her
sharp teeth dug into his hands, again she raised her voice; but this
time her cry was stopped by the brutal blow of the man’s fist. She
clutched at the wall behind her. The earth seemed to rock and sway
and for the first time in all her healthy young life, Hilda McPherson
fainted.

She lay on a sheepskin, a man’s coat beneath her head. Chum Lee knelt
beside her, cup in hand. She swallowed with difficulty, for her throat
pained her and she still felt the grip of those terrible fingers.
Hilda moaned and moved her head from side to side. The Chinaman said
cheerfully:

“All lightee now, Miss Hilda. Chum Lee flix ’im fine. Slut ’im. Bang
’im. Slut ’im up till Mr. Cheerio come. Big fight!” Chum Lee’s eyes
gleamed. “All same Holy Smoke bad man. Take ’im gun. Banfi! Sloot Mr.
Cheerio. Velly good, now lide on lail.”

Hilda understood only that Holy Smoke had shot Cheerio.

She clutched the Chinaman’s arm, and forced herself to her feet.
Pushing Chum Lee aside, Hilda made her way from the saddle shed, where
they had laid her.

Outside, the sharp cold air of the Fall morning was like a dash of
bitter water and brought its revivifying effect. Hilda turned in the
direction of the voice she now heard clearly, for sound carries far
in a country like Alberta, and although Hilda could clearly hear the
voices of the men, they were in fact more than a mile from the ranch.
She was obsessed with the idea that Cheerio had been killed and that
her men had taken his murderer into the woods and were hanging him.
Oh! she wanted a hand in that hanging. Everything primitive and wild
in her nature surged now into being, as she made her way blindly down
that incredibly long hill and ran stumblingly through the pasture lands
to where the group of men were about some strange object that was tied
and bound half sitting on a rail. Then Hilda understood, and waves of
unholy joy swept over her in a flood. They were tarring and feathering
Holy Smoke!

Above the deafening roar of the cheering shouting voices, presently
rose the clear call of the one she knew. No fluttering, stammering
tongue now. The voice of a captain, a leader among men:

“One, two, three! In she goes!”

The rail was swung back and forth, and at that “Three,” with a roar
from twenty or thirty throats, it was released from the hands gripping
it at either end and plunged into the muddy water of the shallow
slough. It described a somersault. Head downward went the man they had
tarred and feathered. The rail jerked over, and the head of Holy Smoke
arose out of the water, a grotesque paste of mud and tar covering it
completely. Loud shouts of glee arose from the men. They jeered and
yelled to the struggling wretch in the water.

From the direction of the ranch, came the sound of the loud clanking
breakfast bell of Chum Lee. In high good humour, with appetites whetted
and vengeance satisfied, the men of O Bar O retraced their steps toward
the ranch, prepared for that hearty breakfast which should stiffen them
against the invigorating work of at last rounding up.

Cheerio alone remained by the slough, and Hilda, watching him from the
little clump of bush, witnessed a strange and merciful act on his part;
the sort of thing a man of Cheerio’s type was accustomed to do at the
front, when an enemy, hors de combat, needed final succour. Cheerio
thrust two long logs into the mud of the slough, very much as he had
done when he had rescued the heifer in the woods. Now also he went out
across the logs and cut the ropes that bound the man to the rail. Holy
Smoke grasped after the logs, clung to them desperately, and Cheerio
gave his stiff order to him to get off the place as expeditiously as
possible if he valued his hide.

Having set the man free, Cheerio returned to the bank, stopped to clean
the mud off his boots with a handy stick and then moved to follow after
the men, now at a considerable distance.

Hilda, her blue and red cape flapping back from her as she came from
the little bush toward him, was holding out both her hands, but as
Cheerio stopped short they dropped helplessly at her side. His grave
eyes slowly travelled over the piteous little figure in his path. The
eyes that had been so stern now softened, but Cheerio could not speak
at that moment. Something rose in his throat and held him spellbound,
looking at the girl he loved and whom he had expected never to see
again. Hilda’s eyes were unnaturally wide and dark; her lips were as
tremulous as a flower and quivering like those of a hurt child. The
flag of hostility and hate was down forever. She was pathetic and most
lovely in her humility.

Cheerio murmured something unintelligible and held out his arms to her.
Hilda would have gone indeed directly to that haven; but there was
Sandy racing along the trail on Silver Heels, shouting like an Indian
excited queries and shrilly demanding to know why he had been “left out
of the fun.” Nevertheless, Cheerio had sensed the unconscious motion
of the girl, and a light broke over his face, driving away the last
shadow. His wide, boyish smile beamed down upon her. Speech failed him
not at that blessed moment.

“_Darling!_” said Cheerio, in such a voice that Hilda thought the word
an even more beautiful one than the “Dear” he had once before called
her.

“Hi, Hilday! What’s all the racket about? What they done to Ho? Where
is he? Dad’s goin’ to kill ’em. He’s gone plumb crazy at the house.
Chum Lee come on in an tol’ ’im that he beat you up. Is that true?”

Cheerio answered for her.

“He’s a bad lot, Sandy, and he’s got his deserts.” His eyes were still
on Hilda. It didn’t seem possible that he could withdraw them. Over
her pale cheeks a glow was coming like the dawn, and her shy glance
trembled toward his own.

“My! Dad’s hoppin’ mad. Ses hangin’ ain’t too good for him, the dirty
dog, an I say it too! What’d he do to you? What was you doin’ in the
barn at that hour?”

Hilda shook her head. Her eyes were shining so that even Sandy was
nonplussed.

“You don’t _look_ beaten up,” said her brother, and Hilda laughed and
then unexpectedly her eyes filled with tears and she sobbed.

“Gee! I wish someone’d waked me up. Doggone it, I don’t see why I was
left out. Wish I’d caught him hittin’ my sister! Dad’s nearly crazy.
You better hustle along home, Hilda. You’d think you were the only
person at O Bar O now to hear Dad talk. He’s thinkin’ up every mean
thing he ever said to you and he’s cryin’ like a baby.”

“Poor old Dad!” said Hilda, softly.

A movement on the edge of the slough now attracted the incredulous
eyes of Sandy McPherson. He was shuffling into the clothes left for
him on the bank. Instantly Sandy had reined up beside him. He yelled
insults and epithets down at the shivering wretch on the bank, stuck
his fingers into his mouth and produced a hooting whistle; then Sandy
played at lariating the man, but Ho, with a venomous look, grasped the
rope as it fell in a ring near him, and there was a tug of war for its
possession between man and boy. Sandy let go the rope and concentrated
upon the nine foot long bull whip in his other hand. Yelling to the
man to move along swiftly and to get “to hello” off O Bar O, Hilda’s
brother pursued her assailant.

Meanwhile, Hilda and Cheerio seized the opportunity to continue that
interrupted duologue. He said suddenly, after a rapt moment:

“Hilda, you don’t hate me then, do you, dear?”

In a little voice, Hilda said:

“No.”

“And you d-don’t want me to go away, do you?”

Hilda shook her head, too moved for more speech, but her eyes brimmed
at the mere thought of his going. That was too much for Cheerio, and
regardless of Sandy, he took Hilda’s hand.

“Then I’ll stay,” he said, softly.

Hand in hand, they were moving homeward, walking in an entranced
silence, the glow of the early morning drawing them under its golden
spell; but before Sandy had joined them, all that they had yearned to
say and hear was spoken.

“Hilda! I love you!”

“Oh, do you? Then--then--that Nanna--”

“Nanna is seventy-four. My old nurse, Hilda. When I returned
from--Germany--I was a prisoner there nine months, Hilda--Nanna was
the only one at home who knew me. You see--you see--it was better that
they shouldn’t know me. M-m-my brother was in my place. And you see,
Hilda, I c-came out here, and N-Nanna planned to f-follow me. She is
seventy-four.”

“Seventy-four! Oh, I thought--I thought--that picture in the locket----”

“That was Sybil--now my brother’s wife.”

Wonderful things were happening to Hilda. She wanted to laugh; she
wanted to cry, and the pink cheek wavered from him, and then came to
rest against his rough sleeve. Cheerio never even glanced back to see
if Sandy were at hand. He placed his arm completely and competently
around Hilda’s waist. Their lips were very close. This time it was
Hilda who whispered the words, and Cheerio bent so close to hear them
that his lips came upon her own.

“Oh, I loved you all the time!” said Hilda McPherson.

At this juncture, they stopped walking, for one may not kiss as
satisfactorily while moving along.

When Hilda regained her power of speech, she said:

“I’m never going to say another unkind thing to you.”

“You can say anything you want, sweetheart,” said Cheerio. “Whatever
you say will sound just right to me--dearest old girl.”

It occurred to Hilda that he possessed a most wonderful and extensive
vocabulary. She had never heard such terms before, and when she had
read them Hilda had felt embarrassed, and in her rough way had thought:
“Oh, slush!”

But somehow the words had an almost lyrical sound when uttered by the
infatuated Cheerio.

They were brought back to life by the yipping, jeering Sandy.

“Gee! I believe you two’s struck on each other!”

He reined up beside them and examined the telltale faces with all a
boy’s cunning and disgusted amusement.

“Say, are you goin’ to git married?”

“You better believe we are!” laughed Cheerio, falling easily into the
slang of the country.

“Holy Salmon! Well, there’s no accountin’ for tastes,” said Hilda’s
young brother, with disparagement. Then resignedly: “But, I betchu
Dad’ll be tickled. He’ll have a life partner for chess. Gee! Here’s
where I escape!”

He kicked his heels into his horse’s flanks and with the grace and
agility of a circus rider, with neither saddle nor bridle merely a
halter--Sandy was off. He turned bodily around in his seat on the
running horse’s back to yell back at them as he rode, hand to mouth:

“Aw, cut out the spoons! I’m going to hustle home and break the news to
fa-ather! Let ’er go, bronc! Let ’er fly! Let ’er fly!”

They smiled after the vanishing boy, smiled into each other’s faces and
smiled at the sunshine and the gilded hills, now shining in the full
light of the marvellous Alberta sun. After a moment, shyly, despite the
fact that she was held closely to him:

“What’s your real name?”

“Edward Eaton Charlesmore of Macclesfield and Coventry.”

“You’re making fun of me.”

“N-no, I’m not, darling. That’s my real name.”

Hilda smiled delightedly.

“But what do they call you?”

He laughed, squeezed her tightly, kissed her and then kissed her again.

“Cheerio!” he said.

“But that’s not a real name!”

“It’s good enough for me. You gave me it, you know.”

“And--and are you really a duke or something like that?”

Again he laughed.

“You bet I am.”

Her face fell. She regretted his high estate. Cheerio put his lips
against her small pink ear, and he kissed it before he whispered what
he said was a great secret:

“Hilda, I’ll tell you who I am: Cheerio, Duke of the O Bar O, and
you’re the darling Duchess!”

“That’s Jake!” said Hilda.


THE END



Transcriber’s Note:

Obvious typographical errors have been corrected. Table of Contents
added by the transcriber.

Known changes have been made as follows:

  Page 18
     the horney one changed to
     the horny one

  Page 41
      many a gymkhanna, rodeo changed to
      many a gymkhana, rodeo

  Page 88
      there’s a gymkhanna over changed to
      there’s a gymkhana over

  Page 100
     At the sight of Cheerio. Hilda changed to
     At the sight of Cheerio, Hilda

  Page 115
     You know Hilda. Gee! changed to
     You know Hilda. Gee!”

  Page 118
     of first rider. but changed to
     of first rider, but

  Page 139
     rasing her head changed to
     raising her head

  Page 185
     the gymkhanna at Grand Valley changed to
     the gymkhana at Grand Valley

  Page 210
     Cheerio, an employe of changed to
     Cheerio, an employee of

  Page 214
     the depised locket changed to
     the despised locket

  Page 215
     a quizz concerning changed to
     a quiz concerning

  Page 223
     humourously or pacifically changed to
     humorously or pacifically

  Page 227
     “Miss Hilda” began changed to
     “Miss Hilda,” began

  Page 234
     this aint’ no changed to
     this ain’t no

  Page 271
     afraid to be alone” changed to
     afraid to be alone.”

  Page 295
     Now I understnd changed to
     Now I understand

  Page 296
     if you please. changed to
     if you please.”

  Page 317
     you know. changed to
     you know.”

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HIS ROYAL NIBS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
